Production Draft June 27 , 1994 Close On A Face .
A nine year old boy , Young Cole , his eyes wide with wonder .
watching something intently .
We Hear the sounds of the P . A . System droning Flight Information mingled with the sounds of urgent Shouts , running Feet , Exclamations .
Young Cole ' S Pov : twenty yards away , a Blonde Man is sprawled on the floor , blood oozing from his gaudy Hawaiian shirt .
A Brunette in a tight dress , her face obscured from Young Cole ' S view , rushes to the injured man , kneels beside him , ministering to his wound .
Angle On Young Cole , flanked by his Parents , their faces out of view , as they steer him away .
Come on , Son - this is no place for us .
Young Cole resists momentarily , mesmerized by the drama .
Young Cole ' S Pov : intermittently visible through a confusion of Figures rushing through the foreground , the Blonde Man reaching up and touching the cheek of the kneeling Brunette in a gesture of enormous tenderness , a gesture of farewell , while the P . A . System continues its monotonous monotone .
Flight 784 for San Francisco is now ready for boarding at inmate number 66578 , Greely .
- number
5429 , Garcia - number 87645 , Cole . Cole , late thirties , dark hair , comes awake in a bunk cage , one of many stacked four high along both sides of a long dim corridor .
He blinks in the near dark , shaken , disoriented .
Then , as he " recovers " from his very vivid dream , We Get Our Flashlights glare .
In the half - light , Cole sees spooky figures , Guards , moving among the locked bunk / cages .
Cole turns and whispers to the occupant of the next cage , Jose .
Ssssst !
Jose , what ' s going on ?
Jose ' s face is almost lost in shadow .
What there is of it is youthful .
He ' s just a scared Puerto Rican kid !
" Volunteers " again .
Jose immediately rolls over and feigns sleep as Scarface , a menacing guard with a jagged scar running down his cheek , looms close to Cole ' s cage and unlocks it .
" Volunteer duty .
I didn ' t volunteer .
You causing trouble again ?
No trouble .
Cole ' s alone , struggling to get into what looks like a space suit in a room where suits hang like ghosts with blank eyes .
Cole has the torso of the suit on now and is trying to close it .
All openings must be closed .
Cole looks for the source of the voice , a tiny grate in the wall .
If the integrity of the suit is compromised in any way , if the fabric is torn or a zipper not closed , readmittance will be denied .
Cole , wearing the " space suit " and a helmet with a plastic visor , steps into a tiny chamber , a kind of air lock .
The heavy door clangs shut behind him .
He ' s alone .
Cole ' S breath comes quicker now as he sucks oxygen from the air tanks on his back .
On the opposite wall is another door with a huge wheel lock .
Cole turns the heavy wheel , opens the door , steps through It Cole ' S in an ascending elevator that groans and creaks .
He looks down at a crudely drawn map he holds in his gloved hand .
The map shows a series of tunnels and ladders .
Cole pans a flashlight , probing the filthy sewer he ' s wading through Rats flee the blade of light , scurry across islands of rusting junk .
The flashlight beam settles on a ladder mounted in the wall .
Reaching the rusted ladder , Cole starts to climb awkwardly .
A Scraping Noise as a heavy man - hole cover is pushed up and moved aside .
Cole ' S helmeted head emerges from below .
Cole ' S Pov Through His Plastic - Visored Helmet : a city in moonlight !
A surreal image of abandoned buildings .
No people anywhere .
The only sounds are the Wind and Cole ' S Breathing .
Cole ' S light reveals abandoned vine - covered automobiles .
Moving to the nearest car , Cole searches in the vines for something .
Finds it .
An insect .
Cole takes the bug in his gloved hand .
As he clumsily inserts it into a collection tube , something makes him turn .
There ' s something across the street in the dark .
Something alive .
Cole points his flashlight and reveals . a Bear !
Startled by the light , the animal blinks , then stands on its rear legs and Roars .
Angle On Cole , staring wide - eyed .
Then , the Bear sinks down onto all fours and , trying to avoid the flashlight , it pads quickly down the street .
Using the flashlight to see , Cole reaches down to the cracked floor and gets another specimen .
Dogshit !
The only sound is Cole ' S labored Breathing .
Then , a different Sound .
Grrrr !
A dog .
More Grrrrs .
More dogs .
Then , a Yip .
Then , Vicious Growls .
It ' s a Dogfight !
A giant Owl , perched on an overhead traffic light , raises its wings and lifts off . rising higher and higher into the brightening sky .
Below , on the street , Cole trudges along , passing deserted buildings , windows broken , rusted signs dangling .
Cole ' S light reveals a spider web just inside the store .
A large Spider tries to hide from the light .
Cole reaches carefully into the web and plucks the spider and puts it into one of his specimen tubes .
Then , he shines his light all around the once elegant store .
There ' s nothing but aisle after aisle of moldering consumer goods .
As Cole comes out of the store , the first rays of the sun hit the building .
Cole stops , squints into the light through his visor .
Cole ' S Pov : spray - painted on the wall a long time ago is a stenciled logo of twelve monkeys holding hands in a circle .
Over it is written , " We Did It "
Cole looks up .
Cole ' S Pov : high up on a building across the street , a Lion patrols a ledge , pauses , looks out majestically over his world .
Roaring Water , powerful torrents gushing from nozzles in the wall , pummel the still - suited Cole .
Stark naked and shivering , Cole is being scrubbed with brushes on long poles wielded by two Hulking Figures in bulky decontamination suits , their personas lost in their windowed masks .
It ' s a grim scene in a grim cement room with damp , dripping walls .
From an unseen source comes an Amplified Voice .
Raise your arms above your head .
Cole lifts his arms and the Figures start scrubbing his armpits .
Still naked , Cole is seated on a stool while a Masked Technician in a less elaborate , less bulky decontamination outfit draws blood from Cole ' S arm with an old - fashioned hypodermic needle .
Cole glances toward a single , nearly opaque " window " of thick plastic in the rusty iron wall .
Vague Figures seem to lurk behind the translucent aperture , studying him .
The Technician slips the blood sample through a slot in the wall .
Ushered in by two guards , Tiny and Scarface , Cole looks around .
Cole ' S Pov : wails hidden by old headlines , articles , maps , charts . a blackboard covered with elaborate , sophisticated formulae . surfaces heaped with cracked monitors , gerry - rigged computers held together with string , lasers lost in tangles of cable , ancient tube amplifiers , a dilapidated cardboard reconstruction of a city , stacks of moldering books and tattered computer printouts . and , seated at a long conference table , staring at Cole , six Scientists : an Astrophysicist , Engineer , Botanist , Microbiologist , Zoologist , and a Geologist .
They represent a " modern " science where brilliant new ideas interface with crude , outdated , patched - together technologies .
James Cole .
Cleared from quarantine .
Thank you .
You two wait outside .
He ' s got a history , Doctor .
Violence .
Cole ' S eyes return to the walls .
Headlines : " Clock Ticking !
No Cure Yet .
Anti - social six - doing 25 to life .
I don ' t think he ' s going to hurt us .
You ' re not going to hurt us , are you Mr . Cole ?
Cole ' S head turns quickly to the Engineer .
No , sir .
The Guards exchange a look , shrug , exit , closing the door .
Why don ' t you sit down , Mr . Cole .
Cole goes to the empty chair at the conference table , sits down .
We want you to tell us about last night .
I went to the surface and I collected specimens like I was told .
The Scientists don ' t say anything .
They just study him carefully .
I mashed the spider , didn ' t I ?
We ' ll get to the spider later , Mr . Cole .
Right now , we want to know everything that you saw .
Cole , starting to look very tired now , stands at the blackboard sketching a detailed map of exactly where he was last night .
Where you collected sample # 4 , what street was that ?
It ' s important to observe everything .
I think it was . I ' m sure it was 2nd Street .
As the Scientists start to whisper animatedly among themselves , Cole ' S eyes drift across the newspaper clippings taped to the wall .
One headline screams , " Virus Mutating "
Another features a photo of an Old Man and the words , Scientist Says , " It ' S Too Late For Cure .
Close your eyes , Cole .
Startled , Cole closes his eyes obediently .
Blackness .
Like Cole , We See Nothing .
But we Hear their Voices .
Tell us in detail what you ' ve seen in this room .
Uh , in this room ?
Uh . How many of us are there ?
Six . seven , if you count me .
Tell us about the pictures on the wall .
Uh , you mean the newspapers ?
Tell us about the newspapers .
Can you hear my voice ?
What do I look like ?
What does he look like , the man who just spoke ?
How old were you when you left the surface ?
The Voices blur into a cacophony and Fade Into the droning P . A . System at the airport .
The Dream Again !
But at an earlier moment .
Young Cole , flanked by his Parents , whose faces are out of view , is watching a Plane land through one of the big glass windows that lines the concourse leading to the departure gates .
Flight 784 now boarding at gate .
Suddenly , a Shout , followed by raised Voices , interrupts the monotonous airport routine .
As Young Cole and his Parents turn to see what ' s going on , a man we ' ll call Mr .
Ponytail , his face averted , hurries past them , bumping Young Cole with a Chicago Hulls Sports Duffle Bag .
Young Cole sees little more than the gaudy pants , the duffle , and the man ' s ponytail flopping as he rushes towards the gates .
Just then , a Woman ' S Voice cries out , " Nooooooooo "
Young Cole turns back toward the Security Check Point just as Travelers scatter madly , some diving to the floor , others running .
A Terrified Traveler , hitting the floor close by , looks up at Young Cole with panicky eyes , and asks .
Just exactly why did you volunteer ?
Cole comes abruptly awake .
Seated now , he ' s facing the Scientists .
Wake up , Cole .
Uh , I didn ' t hear the .
I asked you , why did you volunteer ?
Well , the guard woke me up .
He told me I volunteered .
The Scientists react , whispering urgently among themselves .
Cole starts to nod off again , then comes awake with a start as the Engineer speaks to him .
We appreciate you volunteering .
You ' re a very good observer , Cole .
Uh , thank you .
You ' ll get a reduction in sentence .
Cole keeps his face impassive .
To be determined by the proper authorities .
You don ' t want to jeopardize that reduction , do you , Cole ?
Have it taken away ?
No , sir !
We have a very advanced program , something very different , requires very skilled people .
An opportunity to reduce your sentence considerably .
And possibly play an important role in returning the human race to the surface of the earth .
We want tough minded people .
Strong mentally .
We ' ve had some . misfortunes with " unstable " types .
For a man in your position . an opportunity .
Not to volunteer could be a real mistake .
Definitely a mistake !
Cole gives away nothing .
He ' s in a box here .
He has no choices .
He stares at the tapping pencil .
A strikingly " real " world of bright colors .
Extravagant paintings adorn the walls .
A Poet , tiny and ruddy faced , squints over his glasses as he reads in a booming voice to an Audience of thirty seated on folding chairs .
Still among the myriad microwaves , the infra - red messages , the gigabytes of ones and zeroes , we find words , infinitesimally small , byte - sized now , tinier even than science lurking in some vague electricity where , if we listen we can hear the solitary voice of that poet telling us , " We are no other than a moving row Of Magic shadow - shapes that come and go Round with the Sun - illumined Lantern hold In Midnight by the Master of the show .
As the Poet reads , we Study the audience , mostly Yuppie Culture Junkies or Bohemians .
Among them , a light - haired woman of twenty - eight , soberly dressed , wearing glasses .
She ' s Kathryn Railly .
And it ' s her beeper that suddenly Beeps .
Beep !
Beep !
" The Moving Finger writes ; and , having writ , Moves on : nor all your Piety nor Wit Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line , Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it .
Beep !
Beep !
Scowling at the outrageous interruption , the Poet looks up from the text just as Railly , tumbling , shuts off the beeper and rises , embarrassed .
As she makes her way to an exit , the glaring Poet continues .
" Yesterday This Day ' s Madness did prepare ; Tomorrow ' s Silence , Triumph or Despair : Drink !
for you know not whence you came , nor why : Drink !
for you know not why you go , nor where .
Detective Franki leads Railly past crowded holding cells .
- so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i . d , and he gets agitated , starts screaming about viruses .
Totally irrational , totally disoriented , doesn ' t know where he is , what day it is , alla that stuff .
All they got was his name .
They figure he ' s stoned out of his mind , it ' s some kinda psychotic episode , so they ' re gonna bring him .
He ' s been tested for drugs ?
Negative for drugs .
But he took on five cops like he was dusted to the eyeballs .
No drugs .
You believe that ?
Franki pauses , indicating a tiny observation window of thick meshed glass in an otherwise solid door , and Railly looks through it .
Railly ' S Pov Through The Window : a Man , his back to her , in strait - jacket and prison denims , examining the wall of the padded cell with the distorted intensity of a " mental case .
You have him in restraints .
Were you listening ?
We got two officers in the hospital .
Yeah , he ' s in restraints , plus the medic gave him enough stellazine to kill a horse .
Look at him !
Still on his feet .
Railly ' S Pov Through The Window : the Man in the cell turns , looks right at her .
In spite of the cuts and welts , it ' s clearly Cole .
That would explain the bruises , I guess .
The struggle .
You want to go in ?
Examine him ?
Yes , please .
You said he gave a name .
James Cole .
That ' s everything we got .
None of the James Coles on the computer match him .
No license , no prints , no warrants . Nothing .
You want me to go in with you ?
No , thank you .
I ' ll be right here . just in case .
Cole stares at Railly .
The environment is intensely real . vivid colors . each sound , however slight , very distinct , almost loud . and yet she appears to him almost like a vision .
Mr . Cole ?
My name is Doctor Railly .
I ' m a psychiatrist .
I work for the County - I don ' t work for the police .
My only concern is your well being - do you understand that ?
I need to go now .
I ' m going to be completely honest .
I ' m not going to lie to you .
I can ' t make the police let you go . but I do want to help you .
And I want you to trust me .
Can you do that , James ?
May I call you " James ?
" James !
Nobody ever calls me that .
Have you been a patient at County ?
Have I seen you someplace ?
No , not possible .
Listen , I have to get out of here .
I ' m supposed to be getting information .
What kind of information ?
It won ' t help you .
You can ' t do anything about it .
You can ' t change anything .
Change what ?
I need to go .
Do you know why you ' re here , James .
Because I ' m a good observer .
Because I have a tough mind .
I see .
You don ' t remember assaulting a police officer . several officers ?
They wanted identification .
I don ' t have any identification .
I wasn ' t trying to hurt them .
You don ' t have a driver ' s license , James ?
Or a Social Security card ?
Why not ?
Most people have some Id .
You wouldn ' t understand .
You ' ve been in an institution , haven ' t you , James ?
A hospital ?
I have to go .
A jail ?
Prison ?
Underground .
Hiding ?
I love this air .
This is wonderful air .
What ' s wonderful about the air , James ?
It ' s so clean .
No germs .
You ' re afraid of germs ?
I have to go .
Why do you think there aren ' t any germs in the air , James ?
This is April , right ?
July .
July !
Do you know what year it is ?
What year is it ?
What year do you think it is ?
You think it ' s July of 1995 ?
That ' s the future , James .
Do you think you ' re living in the future ?
No , 1995 is the past .
1995 is the future , James .
This is 1989 .
Cole looks stunned .
Cole , bound tightly by the strait - jacket , heavy manacles on his ankles , is being escorted down the corridor by two surly Policemen .
Where are you taking me ?
South of France , buddy .
Fancy hotel .
You ' re gonna love it .
South of France !
I don ' t want to go to the South of France .
I want to make a telephone call .
Policeman # 2 smirks as he unlocks a heavy steel door .
Zip it , scumbag - you fooled the shrink with your act , but you don ' t fool us .
Then , Policeman # 2 swings the steel door open and sunlight overwhelms Cole , blinding him in a dazzling fury of white light .
A Mini - van , the kind of vehicle used to transport a half dozen prisoners , crawls through a busy street .
The Police Department logo is prominent on the side of the van beneath barred windows .
Fierce spray recalls the decontamination in the future .
Cole stands stark naked under the shower while two muscular attendants , Palmer and Billings , supervise .
As Palmer shuts off the water , Billings hands Cole a towel and starts inspecting his scalp .
Lemme see your head , Jimbo , see if you got any creepy crawlies .
I need to make a telephone call .
Gotta work that out with a doctor , Jimbo .
Can ' t make no calls ' til the doctor says .
It ' s very important .
What chew gotta do , Jimbo , is take it easy , relax into things .
We all gonna get along fine if you just relax .
Cole gets the hint of menace in the message and submits to the lice inspection , only his eyes revealing his frustration .
Cole stands in the doorway , stunned by his first sight of the large room .
His eyes go to the heavily - grilled windows where light pours in from outside .
Then , to the Tv , where a Cartoon Commercial makes raucous noises .
Patients , in K - Mart street clothes or ratty robes , stare gloomily at the Tv , or play cards , pace , or just stare blankly .
Billings is at Cole ' S side , beckoning to a patient , Jeffrey Mason , a twenty year old white youth dressed in khakis and a plaid shirt .
Jeffrey .
Yo ! Jeffrey .
This here is James .
Whyncha show James around ?
Tell him the Tv rules , show him the games an ' stuff , okay ?
How much you gonna pay me ?
Huh ?
I ' d be doing your job .
Five thousand dollars , my man .
That enough ?
I ' ll wire it to your account as usual , okay ?
Okay , Billings .
Five thousand .
That ' s enough .
Five thousand dollars .
I ' ll give him the Deluxe Mental Hospital Tour .
As Billings walks away chuckling , Jeffrey turns to Cole .
Kid around , kid around .
It makes them feel good , we ' re all pals .
We ' re prisoners , they ' re the guards , but it ' s all in good fun , you see ?
Cole nods and Jeffrey indicates card tables where Patients are playing cards , checkers , chess , or working on jig saw puzzles .
Here ' s the games .
Games vegitize you .
If you play the games , you ' re voluntarily taking a tranquilizer .
Cole sees a partially completed puzzle of the well - known painting , The Peaceable Kingdom , depicting a serene world of animals in harmony .
What ' d they give you ?
Thorazine ?
How much ?
Learn your drugs - know your doses .
I need to make a telephone call .
A telephone call ?
That ' s communication with the outside world !
Doctor ' s discretion .
Hey , if alla these nuts could just make phone calls , it could spread .
Insanity oozing through telephone cables , oozing into the ears of all those poor sane people , infecting them !
Whackos everywhere !
A plague of madness .
In fact , very few of us here are actually mentally ill .
I ' m not saying you ' re not mentally ill , for all I know you ' re crazy as a loon .
But that ' s not why you ' re here .
Why you ' re here is because of the system , because of the economy .
There ' s the Tv .
It ' s all right there .
Commercials .
We are not productive anymore , they don ' t need us to make things anymore , it ' s all automated .
What are we for then ?
We ' re consumers .
Okay , buy a lot of stuff , you ' re a good citizen .
But if you don ' t buy a lot of stuff , you know what ?
You ' re mentally ill !
That ' s a fact !
If you don ' t buy things . toilet paper , new cars , computerized blenders , electrically operated sexual devices .
A woman orderly , Terry , turns from the feeble Patient she ' s helping .
Take it easy , Jeffrey .
Be calm .
Abruptly , Jeffrey stifles his hysteria , takes a deep breath and continues , completely calm now .
But Cole isn ' t listening .
He ' s mesmerized by the Tv .
So if you want to watch a particular program , say " All My Children " or something , you go to the Charge Nurse and tell her what day and time the show you want to see is on .
But you have to tell her before the show is scheduled to be on .
There was this one guy who was always requesting shows that had already played .
He couldn ' t quite grasp the idea that the Charge Nurse couldn ' t just make it be yesterday for him , turn back time ha ha .
What a fruitcake !
This last thought actually penetrates Cole ' S focus on the Tv and he turns to Jeffrey who ' s picking up speed again .
Seriously , more and more people are being defined now as mentally ill .
Why ?
Because they ' re not consuming on their own .
But as patients , they become consumers of mental health care .
And this gives the so - called sane people work !
Okay , that ' s it , Jeffrey , you ' re gonna get a shot .
I warned you .
Right !
Right !
Carried away , heh heh .
I got " carried away .
Explaining the workings of . the institution .
Just then , Tj Washington , a somber - looking African American in a bathrobe , taps Cole on the shoulder .
I don ' t really come from outer space .
This is Tj Washington , Jim - he doesn ' t really come from outer space .
Don ' t mock me , my friend .
It ' s a condition of " mental divergence .
I find myself on another planet , Ogo , part of an intellectual elite , preparing to subjugate barbarian hordes on Pluto .
But even though it ' s a totally convincing reality in every way . I can feel , breathe , hear . nevertheless , Ogo is actually a construct of my psyche .
I am mentally divergent in that I am escaping certain unnamed realities that plague my life here .
When I stop going there , I will be well .
Are you also divergent , friend ?
The P . A . System interrupts , startling Cole .
James Cole .
Report to Staff .
James Cole !
Staff !
Whoo ! Time for Staff .
Now the geniuses cure you .
Hallelujah !
Cole is agitated , speaking forcefully .
This is a place for crazy people !
I ' m not crazy !
Railly , four other Psychiatric Residents , including Railly ' S best friend , Marilou Martin , and their chief , Dr .
Owen Fletcher , sit around a beat - up conference table , watching Cole , who sits facing the doctors , with Billings looming behind him .
( Some of the Doctors bear a strong resemblance to the Scientists Of The Future .
We don ' t use that term .
" crazy , Mr . Cole .
Well , you ' ve got some real nuts in here !
Listen to me , all of you - I have to tell you something that ' s going to be difficult for you to understand , but .
James . please .
These are all doctors here and we want to help you .
Mr . Cole - last night you told Dr . Railly you thought it was . 1995 .
.
How about right now ?
Do you know what year it is right now ?
1989 .
Look , I ' m not confused .
There ' s been a mistake , I ' ve been sent to the wrong place .
Suddenly , Cole reaches out and Billings lunges forward , but Cole is just grabbing a pad and pencil .
Hey , I ' m not going to hurt anybody .
Fletcher restrains Billings with a hand signal .
Do any of you know anything about the Army of the Twelve Monkeys ?
They paint this , stencil it , on buildings , all over the place .
Cole waves a sketch of the dancing monkey logo we saw earlier .
Mr . Cole .
Right .
I guess you wouldn ' t , this is 1989 , they ' re probably not active yet .
That makes sense !
Okay .
Listen to me , three billion people died in 1995 .
Three billion , got that ?
Almost the whole population .
Of the world !
Only about one percent survived .
Doctors exchange knowing looks .
This is an old story , apparently .
Are you going to save us , Mr . Cole ?
Save you ?
How can I save you ?
It already happened !
I can ' t save you .
I ' m simply trying to get some information for people in the present so that someday .
You don ' t believe me .
You think I ' m crazy .
But I ' m not crazy .
I ' m a convict , sure , I have a quick temper , but I ' m as sane as anyone in this room .
I . Cole stops , sees Dr . Fletcher tapping his pencil .
Cole ' S seen that tapping before - in the future !
It disorients him .
Can you tell us the name of the prison you ' ve come from ?
Cole doesn ' t answer .
He ' s staring at the tapping pencil .
Does this bother you , Mr . Cole ?
No !
Look , I don ' t belong here !
What I need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out .
Who would you call , Mr . Cole , who would straighten everything out ?
Scientists .
I ' m supposed to report in to them .
They ' ll want to know they sent me to the wrong time .
So you could talk to these scientists and they do what ?
Send you to the future ?
No , no .
I can ' t talk to them .
It ' s called , " voice mail .
I ' m supposed to leave messages .
They monitor it from the present .
" From the present "
We ' re not in the present now , Mr . Cole ?
No , no .
This is the past .
This has already happened .
Listen .
Mr . Cole , you belong in 1995 - that ' s the present , is that it ?
No , 1995 is the past , too .
Look .
These scientists , Mr . Cole ? Are they doctors like ourselves ?
Two of the residents exchange quick knowing looks .
No ! I mean yes , but .
Look , I ' ve been given a lot of drugs
but I ' m still perfectly lucid .
You have to let me use the phone .
One call !
Cole looks desperately toward Railly , pleading eyes meeting hers .
Four little Kids Scream and Squabble while the phone Chirps insistently in the tiny , cluttered apartment and a harried Mother lunges for the phone , answers sharply .
Yes ?
Whaaaaat ?
" Voice mail !
I don ' t know what you ' re talkin ' about . .
Is this a joke ?
I don ' t know any scientists .
James who ?
Never heard of you !
The Mother slams down the phone .
A dismayed Cole still has the receiver in his hand .
Sympathetically , Railly takes it from him .
It wasn ' t who you expected ?
Cole is clearly agitated , starts to pace , upset . Nuts ?
It was some lady .
She didn ' t know anything .
Perhaps it was a wrong number .
No .
That ' s the reason they chose me - I remember things .
Railly frowns , studying the distracted man with intense interest .
It ' s clear Cole is becoming a special patient and Railly ' S cool , detached demeanor is giving way ever so slightly .
James , where did you grow up ?
Was it around here ?
Around Baltimore ?
What ?
I have the . strangest feeling I ' ve met you before . a long time ago , perhaps .
Were you ever ?
Wait !
This is only 1989 !
I ' m supposed to be leaving messages in 1995 .
It ' s not the right number yet .
That ' s the problem .
Damn !
How can I contact them ?
Railly recovers her distance , her poise , as she takes a bottle , pours out some tablets , and holds them out to Cole .
James , take these .
Please - I helped you like I said I would .
Now I want you to trust me .
Mr .
Ponytail races past the startled Young Cole .
Was it Jeffrey wearing gaudy pants and a ponytail ?
It was definitely Jeffrey ' S Voice .
Travelers dive for cover as a Woman ' S Voice cries out .
The Terrified Traveler looks up at Young Cole , makes eye contact , but doesn ' t speak .
The Terrified Traveler looks a lot like Dr . Fletcher !
Just then , Young Cole is distracted by a running figure .
It ' s the Blonde Man in the Hawaiian shirt , but he ' s not injured .
He ' s sprinting toward the gates , glancing back over his shoulder , his moustache slightly askew !
A sharp Crack of a Gunshot rings out !
Then , Dazzling Light .
Everything goes white !
Cole ' S eyes blink awake , blinded by a flashlight .
He ' s lying in one of thirty beds in a darkened ward .
Disoriented .
Which world is this ?
The room is full of Breathing , Snoring , occasional Moans .
He can barely discern the shadowy figures of an Orderly and a Nurse , making their rounds , checking each bed .
His eyes adjusting to the darkness , Cole watches them exit .
He turns and sees a patch of moonlight coming in a barred window .
With a quick glance at the sleeping Patients , he slips out of bed , makes his way stealthily to the window , peers out .
Cole ' S Pov : the moon , glowing in the sky , illuminating a single tree .
Under the tree , in silhouette , a Couple embraces , kisses .
Angle On Cole , looking out the window , absorbed .
It won ' t work .
You can ' t open it .
Alarmed , Cole turns , sees Jeffrey in the next bed .
You think you can remove the grill but you can ' t .
It ' s welded .
Cole checks the grill anyway .
See ?
I toldja .
And all the doors are locked , too .
They ' re protecting the people on the outside from us .
But the people outside are as crazy as us .
Cole has become preoccupied with a small Spider creeping along the window sill .
He ' s staring at it when he ' s distracted by a sudden Sound .
Grabbing the Spider , Cole scrambles back into bed just as the door opens and an Orderly probes the dark room with the blade of his flashlight .
Angle On Cole , in bed , feigning sleep .
The flashlight clicks off and Cole hears the door close .
For a long moment the ward is silent except for Breathing , Snores , occasional Moans .
Then , Cole hears Jeffrey ' S hoarse whisper , picking up right where he left off .
You know what " crazy " is ?
" crazy " is " majority rules .
Take germs for example .
Although Cole is preoccupied with the Spider struggling to get out of his fist , he can ' t help reacting to the word , " germs !
Germs !
In the 18th century there was no such thing !
Nobody ' d ever imagined such a thing - no sane person anyway .
Along comes this doctor .
Semmelweiss , I think .
He tries to convince people . other doctors mostly . that there are these teeny tiny invisible " bad things " called germs that get into your body and make you . sick !
He ' s trying to get doctors to wash their hands .
What is this guy . crazy ?
Teeny tiny invisible whaddayou call ' em " germs !
As Jeffrey warms to his subject , getting excited , Cole tries to figure out where to put the Spider .
So cut to the 20th century !
Last week in fact , right before I got dragged into this hellhole .
I order a burger in this fast food joint .
The waiter drops it on the floor .
He picks it up , wipes it off , hands it to me . like it was all okay .
No alternative .
Cole pops the Spider in his mouth and swallows it as Jeffrey prattles on . " What about the germs "
I say .
He goes , " I don ' t believe in germs .
Germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap "
Now , he ' s crazy , right ?
Hey , you believe in germs , don ' t you ?
I ' m not crazy .
Of course not , I never thought you were .
You want to escape , right ?
That ' s very sane .
I can help you .
You want me to , don ' t you ?
Get you out ?
If you know how to escape , why don ' t you ?
Why don ' t I escape , that ' s what you were going to ask me , right ?
' Cause I ' d be crazy to escape !
I ' m all taken care of , see ?
I ' ve sent out word .
What ' s that mean ?
I ' ve managed to contact certain underlings , evil spirits , secretaries of secretaries , and assorted minions , who will contact my father .
When he learns I ' m in this kind of place , he ' ll have them transfer me to one of those classy joints where they treat you . properly .
Patients are waking up as the Nurse and two Orderlies burst into the dorm and head straight for Jeffrey who ' s struggling to calm himself .
Sorry .
Really sorry .
Got a little agitated .
The thought of escaping crossed my mind and suddenly . suddenly I felt Like Bending The Fucking Bars Cole watches the Orderlies grab Jeffrey and haul him away .
You dumb assholes !
I ' m a mental patient !
I ' m supposed to act out .
Wait til you morons find out who I am .
My father ' s gonna be really upset .
And
When My Angle On Tv Screen /
A Video Image Of A Lab Monkey , convulsing pathetically , a victim of shocks from the numerous wires attached to his tiny , restrained body .
Angle On Cole , sitting , writing intensely in a magazine with crayon , surrounded by dull - eyed Patients in pajamas and ratty robes , staring at the shuddering Lab Monkey on the Tv screen .
Torture !
Experiments !
We ' re all monkeys .
Cole locks up , startled , as Jeffrey , one eye bruised black , takes the seat next to him .
They hurt you !
Not as bad as what they ' re doing to kitty .
Angle On Tv , showing a laboratory Cat turning in mad circles , eating its own tail , while a News Reporter narrates .
These video tapes were obtained by animal rights activists who worked underground as laboratory assistants for several months .
Authorities say there is little they can do until .
The video footage now shows Lab Workers watching the results of their experiments passively .
Angle On Cole , reacting angrily .
Look at those assholes , they ' re asking for it !
Maybe people deserved to be wiped out !
Wiping cut the human race !
That ' s a great idea !
But it ' s more of a long term thing - right now we have to focus on more immediate goals .
I didn ' t say a word about " you know what .
What are you talking about ?
You know - your plan .
As Cole stares , befuddled , Jeffrey sees Cole ' S magazine .
What ' re you writing ?
You a reporter ?
It ' s private .
A lawsuit ?
You going to sue them ?
Just then Billings looms over Cole , extending a cup full of pills .
Yo , James - time to take your meds .
Angle On The Tv , a commercial playing : a beautiful couple romps in the surf in slow motion while an eager Narrator encourages . Take a chance .
Live the moment .
Sunshine .
Gorgeous beaches .
The Florida Keys !
Angle On Cole , very drugged , seated in front of the Tv along with other drugged Patients , staring at the screen .
Angle On The Tv , showing a picture of the Marx Brothers .
We ' ll return to the Marx Brothers in " Monkey Business " following these messages .
Monkey Business !
Monk Key Business .
Cole sees Jeffrey sliding into the next chair and smirking .
Get it ?
Monk - Key . Monk !
Key ! Jeffrey flashes his palm open for one quick moment .
A Key !
What ?
Wooooo , they really dosed you , bro .
Major load !
Listen up - try and get it together .
Focus ! Focus !
The plan !
Remember ?
I did my part .
What ?
Not , " what , babe !
When !
" When .
Now ! Let us guide you to the stocks and bonds that will enhance your portfolio .
Angle On Tv , almost mimicking Jeffrey with an ad . a Bull and a Bear and a computer screen showing stock prices fluctuating .
A portfolio tailored to your specific needs and the needs of your loved ones .
Angle On Cole , dumbfounded , watching Jeffrey dance crazily .
Angle On Billings , across the ward , reacting to Jeffrey , lets go of the Old Man he ' s helping as another orderly , Terry , presses a beeper , calling for help .
Angle On Cole , flabbergasted , as Jeffrey cavorts around the room .
Angle On A Hand , inserting the last piece into the Peaceable Kingdom Jigsaw Puzzle .
Just then , Jeffrey ' S Hand sweeps the puzzle off the table , scattering it into a thousand pieces .
Angle On Jeffrey , dancing away while the Patient who just completed the puzzle stares , very upset .
Other Patients are getting agitated , too , as Jeffrey avoids a lunge by Billings and dances off , using Patients as a shield .
Angle On Cole , realizing through the haze of drugs that Jeffrey is sending a message to him .
Cole looks at the ward door .
Cole ' S Pov : the Ward Door opens and two husky Orderlies enter .
One locks the door with a key , one of many on a key ring attached to his belt , as the other Orderly rushes to join the pursuit .
God damn you , Jeffrey , quit playing the fool .
Angle On Cole , hesitating .
He locks at the door .
blurring in and out of focus .
He looks down at the key in his hand .
Angle On Jeffrey , being grabbed by the Orderlies .
Jeffrey resists wildly as they struggle to overpower him .
Angle On Cole , moving to the door .
He reaches it and tries to insert the key in the lock .
Angle On Lock , as the key keeps missing the hole .
Angle On Cole , glancing nervously over his shoulder .
Cole ' S Pov : Orderlies swarm over Jeffrey , don ' t notice Cole .
Angle On Cole , managing to insert the key .
It won ' t turn .
A Patient , close at hand , startles Cole , speaking into his ear .
Place to go would be . Florida .
The keys are lovely this tine of year .
Cole , unnerved , desperate tries the key again .
It turns .
Be careful .
J . Edgar Hoover isn ' t really dead .
Cole pauses , stares , not understanding .
Then , he opens the door .
Stepping through the door , Cole finds himself in an ante - room facing several elevators .
A uniformed Security Man sitting at a near - by desk doesn ' t even lock up from the magazine he ' s reading .
Barely daring to breathe , Cole steps toward the elevators so his back is to the Security Man .
But he doesn ' t know how to control this elevator .
What should he do ?
Two ' s not working today .
Use one .
Cole freezes , sneaks a glance over his shoulder .
Cole ' S Pov : the Security Man continues his reading .
He ' s a big guy with reading glasses perched on his nose .
He looks exactly like the Menacing Guard In The Future . Scarface !
Angle On Cole , stunned !
Just then , an elevator door slides open .
The elevator ' s empty .
Cole steps into it .
The door closes , isolating Cole in the elevator .
Cole finds the down button , is about to push it when the elevator springs to life .
The numbers on the indicator over the door start to rise - 7 - 8 - 9 .
Then , the elevator stops and the door opens .
Two Doctors and an Aide stand in front of the door , waiting .
Cole hesitates .
They look at him .
They seem to expect him to exit .
Avoiding eye contact , Cole exits the elevator .
As they enter the elevator , the Doctors look back at Cole and frown .
Railly has just arrived for work .
She ' s slipping on her white doctor ' s coat when .
Dr .
Casey , one of the other residents , sticks his head in the door waving a crayoned message on a page torn from a magazine .
This was in my box , but I have a slight suspicion it wasn ' t meant for me .
Casey enters the room , reading the scrawled words dramatically .
" You are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen .
You live in a beautiful world .
But you don ' t know it .
You have freedom , sunshine , air you can breathe .
Cole .
James Cole - right ?
She reaches for the note but Casey moves it out of her grasp .
" I would do anything to stay here , but I must leave .
Please , help me .
Poor man .
Casey is handing her the note when another resident , Dr . Goodins , sticks his head in the door .
He ' s upset .
Hey , Kathryn , James Cole is one of yours , right ?
Railly and Casey stare at him .
He got out .
Took off .
Last seen , he was up on nine .
Just relax - don ' t fight it .
We have to know exactly what ' s there so we can .
The Doctor stops , astonished , as the door bursts open .
It ' s Cole !
He stares at the Patient and the Cat Scanner .
The Patient lifts his head up and stares at Cole .
Eh , excuse me .
Can I help you ?
Cole turns and rushes back out the door .
Cole steps into the corridor , turns to his right , freezes .
A Posse of Security Guards is headed in his direction .
Cole turns to his left .
Four Orderlies are coming that way .
Cole ' S trapped .
A beat .
He attacks the nearest man . Billings .
Railly prepares a hypo , turns to Cole who is strapped tightly on a gurney with Billings and an Rn standing on either side , tense for more trouble .
One of Billings ' eyes is starting to swell shut .
It ' s just a shot to calm you .
No more drugs .
Please .
I have to do this , James .
You ' re very confused .
Railly pushes the needle into Cole ' S skin .
Dr .
Fletcher faces Railly across the conference table .
Dr .
Casey , Dr . Goodins , Dr .
Marilou Martin are also there .
Don ' t be defensive , Kathryn , this isn ' t an inquisition .
I didn ' t think I was being defensive .
I was just .
He should have been in restraints .
It was bad judgment on your part , plain and simple .
why not just cop to it ?
Okay , it was bad judgment .
But I have the strangest feeling about him - I ' ve seen him somewhere and .
Two policemen were already in the hospital and now we have an orderly with a broken arm and a Security Officer with a fractured skull .
I said it was bad judgment !
What else do you want me to say ?
You see what I mean ?
You ' re being defensive .
Isn ' t she being defensive , Bob ?
But just then , Billings sticks his head in the door .
Uh , Dr . Fletcher - we got another . situation .
Dr .
Fletcher looks into an empty padded cell as Railly , Martin , Goodin , Billings , Palmer and the Nurse crowd behind him .
He was in full restraints ?
And the door was locked ?
Yes , sir .
Did it myself .
And he was fully sedated ?
He was fully sedated !
Then are you trying to tell me that a fully sedated , fully restrained patient somehow slipped out that vent , replaced the grill behind him and that he ' s wriggling through the ventilation system right now ?
Dr .
Fletcher indicates an impossibly tiny vent high in the wall .
Seen through the glass windows , a 747 takes off , climbing into the sky as the airport P . A . System drones .
Flight 784 to San Francisco now boarding at Gate 38 .
Young Cole , watching the 747 , whirls at the Sound of a Commotion .
Mr .
Ponytail bumps him .
The Blonde Man sprints past .
The Woman ' S Voice calls out !
Travelers dive for cover briefly revealing the mysterious Brunette running after the Blonde Man !
But this time , Young Cole catches just a glimpse of her face .
She looks a little like Railly except for the dark hair , the make - up .
and the flashy earrings .
She calls out , her Voice blending weirdly with the P . A . System .
The Freedom For Animals Headquarters now boarding on Second Avenue .
The Army of the Twelve Monkeys . Cole , you moron - wake up !
As Cole blinks awake , the digitized monotone of the P . A . System continues to drone in an unearthly Voice .
- they ' re the ones who are going to do it .
Cole ' S eyes seek the source of the sound and find it on the table in front of the panel of disapproving Scientists facing him .
It ' s a beat - up old tape recorder .
I can ' t do anything more .
The Police are after me .
The tape ends , runs off the reel , flap . flap . flap .
Well ?
Uh , what ?
He ' s drugged out of his mind !
He ' s completely zoned out .
Cole , did you or did you not record that message ?
Uh , that message . me ?
It ' s a digital reconstruction of a message , Cole , from a weak signal on our contact number .
Did you make that call ?
I couldn ' t call !
You sent me to the wrong year !
It was 1989 .
The Scientists react , exchanging looks , whispers .
Then .
You ' re certain of that ?
What did you do with your time , Cole ?
Did you waste it on drugs ? Women ?
They forced me to take drugs .
Forced you !
Why would someone force you to take drugs ?
I got into trouble .
I got arrested .
But I still got you a specimen - a spider - but I didn ' t have anyplace to put it , so I ate it .
It was the wrong year anyway , so I guess it doesn ' t matter .
The Scientists stare incredulously , then turn , exchange knowing looks , huddle , start whispering to one another .
Struggling to stay awake Cole sees , blurrily , the Microbiologist staring at Cole intently .
For one moment , the face belongs to Cole blinks hard . and the Microbiologist has his own face , again .
Cole ' S head slumps forward now . and everything goes dark .
Cole !
Cole comes awake with a start .
The room is dark now , except . a slide is being projected on a torn screen .
It ' s a picture of a stenciled graffiti . the logo of The Army of the 12 Monkeys .
What about it , Cole ?
Did you see it ?
Uh , no , sir .
I .
Another slide Clicks into place .
Youthful Protesters , their placards featuring slogans and images of Animal Atrocities , confront Police in riot gear .
What about these people ?
Did you see any of these people ?
Zooming in , panning , the Scientists emphasize the Faces of the Protesters .
The Faces are unfamiliar to Cole ( though We will recognize some of them later on .
Uh , no , sir , I . wait !
The image pans back to a much enlarged blurry Face among the Protesters .
In spite of the poor image , the expression of rage is clear , and it seems to resemble a somewhat older Jeffrey Mason .
Him ?
You saw that man ?
Uh , I think so .
In the mental hospital .
You were in a mental institution !
The Scientists Mutter disapprovingly among themselves .
You were sent to make very important observations !
You could have made a real contribution .
Helped to reclaim the planet .
As well as reducing your sentence .
The question is , Cole - " Do you want another chance .
Cole stares at them , trying to figure out what they mean .
The Brunette runs up the concourse , her back to Young Cole , as frightened Passengers duck for cover , Shouting !
Hey !
Who ' s that ?
Cole opens his eyes .
Where is he ? Silence as he examines the tiny cell .
Bare cement walls .
High ceiling .
Same color and size as the isolation room at the county hospital .
Hey , Bob . what ' s your name ?
Cole looks around frantically .
Up , down .
Where is the Voice coming from ?
Maybe from that tiny vent high in the wall . Where are you ?
You can talk !
Wah ' dja do , Bobby boy ?
Volunteer ?
My name ' s not " Bob .
Not a prob , Bob .
Where ' d they send you ?
Where are you ?
Another cell . .
Maybe .
What do you mean , " maybe ?
What ' s that supposed to mean ?
Maybe . Means " maybe " I ' m in the next cell , another " volunteer " like you - or " maybe " I ' m in the Central Office spying on you for all those science bozos .
Or , hey , " maybe " I ' m not even here .
" Maybe " I ' m just in your head .
No way to confirm anything .
Ha Ha .
Where ' d they send you ?
Cole doesn ' t answer .
Not talking , huh , Bob ?
That ' s
okay
I can handle that .
89 !
How was it ?
Good drugs ?
Lotsa pussy ?
Hey , Bob , you do the job ?
D ' ju find out the " big info . Army of the Twelve Monkeys . where the virus was prior to mutation ?
It was supposed to be 1995 .
Science isn ' t an exact science with these clowns .
You ' re lucky you didn ' t end up in ancient Egypt !
Cole is strapped on a gurney .
Scientists hover near - by , whispering .
The walls of the gloomy chamber are damp , sweating .
No mistakes this time , Cole .
Stay alert .
Keep your eyes open .
Good thinking about that spider , Cole .
Try and do something like that again .
Just relax now - don ' t fight it .
We have to know exactly what ' s there so we can fix it .
The gurney is being wheeled into a crudely welded steel tube . reminiscent of the cat scanner in County Hospital .
Cole ' S Pov : a last glimpse of anxious Faces , then the chamber door is Clanged shut .
Drizzling Rain .
And Screams .
Cole ' S in a deep trench , naked , eyes wide with terror .
What ' s going on ?
Where is he ? Soldiers in gas masks push urgently past him rushing toward their injured Comrades who ' ve been ripped apart by the shell that just hit fifteen yards away .
Muffled Voices shout through gas masks . in French .
Cole doesn ' t know it , but this is World War I !
Suddenly , a Sergeant confronts him , shouting in French .
Where ' s your mask !
And your clothes . and your weapon , you idiot !
What ?
What ?
Cole looks around desperately .
A horribly Wounded Man is being stretchered past them in the narrow trench .
Machine guns chatter close at hand .
Aak Aak Aak .
A grenade Explodes .
Reacting to the foreign word , the Sergeant jams his bayonet into Cole ' S ribs .
Captain !
A Kraut !
We got a Kraut !
I don ' t understand .
Where am I ?
The Captain hurries over , snapping at Cole in German .
How ' d you get here , soldier ?
What ' s your rank ?
Where are your clothes ?
I . don ' t understand .
German !
Speak German !
What are you doing here ?
I gotta find ' em .
I gotta find ' em .
Please , you gotta help me !
Cole turns , sees .
It ' s his friend , Jose , the Puerto Rican kid from the next cell in the " underground " time .
He ' s being carried past Cole now on a stretcher , blood all over his torso , horribly wounded .
Cole !
Oh , God , Cole , where are we ?
Jose reaches out to Cole just as a Photographer takes a Flash Picture of the kid being carried off on the stretcher .
Suddenly , Shots Ring Out .
Cole goes down .
Hit in the leg !
Soldiers in gas masks rush past him like giant insects .
Looking to his left , Cole sees the Captain lying beside him , dead from a chest wound , his gas mask half off .
Cole is reaching for the mask when .
Stunningly quiet .
We are on a placid campus looking at the dignified architecture of Breitrose Hall .
Moving In we Focus On a large poster advertising " The Alexander Lectures , Spring 1995 .
We Skim the listings ( Jon Else on The Nuclear Agony , Dr . Andrew Miksztal on Biological Ethics , etc )
until we Settle On .
A large screen dominates the auditorium stage .
On the screen is a slide of an engraving from the Middle Ages showing a Madman in apparent agony , his mouth shaped to a scream , as he is restrained by Peasants .
The projector Zooms slowly in on the agonized Face of this Madman as we Hear Railly ' S Voice lecturing .
According to the accounts of local officials at that time , this gentleman , judged to be about forty years of age , appeared suddenly in the village of Wyle near Stonehenge in the West of England in April of 1162 .
Using unfamiliar words and speaking in a strange accent , the man made dire prognostications about a pestilence which he predicted would wipe out humanity in approximately 8oo years .
Deranged and hysterical , the man raped a young woman of the village , was taken into custody , but then mysteriously escaped and was not heard of again .
We Discover Railly , six years older now , standing at a lectern in a pool of light .
She ' s dwarfed by the giant screen where the engraving is replaced by a series of slides of woodcuts showing scenes of pestilence in the Middle Ages as she lectures to an audience of mostly Scholarly Types .
In 1841 , Mackay wrote , " During seasons of great pestilence , men have often believed the prophecies of crazed fanatics , that the end of the world was come "
Obviously , this plague / doomsday scenario is considerably more compelling when reality supports it in some form , whether it ' s the Bubonic Plague , smallpox , or Aids .
In addition to these " natural " contagions , there are now technological horrors as well : besides radiation , consider our lurking fear of germ warfare and its close approximation , chemical warfare , which first reared its ugly head in the deadly mustard gas attacks during the First World War .
On The Screen , a Series of Slides show images of World War I Soldiers in gas masks , in death throes , etc . During such an attack in the French trenches in October , 1917 , we have an account of this soldier .
On The Screen , a slide of an old deteriorated photograph shows Jose , the Puerto Rican kid , strapped to a stretcher , being carried by Soldiers through the trenches during an attack .
Jose appears to be ranting madly as the projector Zooms Closer on his face until the image approximates Munch ' s famous painting .
- who , during an assault , was wounded by shrapnel and hospitalized behind the lines where Doctors discovered he had lost all comprehension of French but spoke English fluently , albeit in a regional dialect they didn ' t recognize .
The man , although physically unaffected by the gas , was hysterical .
He claimed he had come from the future , that he was looking for a pure germ that would ultimately wipe mankind off the face of the earth in the year - 1995 !
The Audience gives a nervous Chuckle .
On The Screen , a different old photograph of Jose .
This time he ' s in a military hospital , gaunt , haunted , very ill .
Although seriously injured , the young soldier disappeared from the hospital before more data could be gathered .
No doubt , he was trying to carry on his mission to warn others , substituting for the agony of war . a self - inflicted agony we call the " Cassandra Complex .
As Railly continues , we Scan the Audience and Discover Marilou Martin , Railly ' S friend , and Marilou ' S Husband , Wayne Chang , both listening attentively .
Further away , another Man listens intently .
A Man with shoulder - length carrot - colored hair .
His name is Dr . Peters .
Cassandra , in Greek legend you will recall , was condemned to know the future but to be disbelieved when she foretold it .
Hence , the agony of foreknowledge combined with impotence to do anything about it .
A stack of new books .
The Doomsday Syndrome , Apocalyptic Visions of the Mentally Ill by Dr . Kathryn Railly Surrounded by enthusiastic members of the audience , Railly is seated at the table signing books but Dr .
Peters has her ear .
I think , Dr . Railly , you have given your alarmists a bad name .
Surely there is very real and very convincing data that the planet cannot survive the excesses of the human race : proliferation of atomic devices , uncontrolled breeding habits , the rape of the environment , the pollution of land , sea , and air .
In this context , isn ' t it obvious that " Chicken Little " represents the sane vision and that Homo Sapiens ' motto , " Let ' s go shopping "
is the cry of the true lunatic ?
Dr .
Peters smiles self - importantly at Railly as an elderly disheveled Professor elbows in front of him .
Doctor Railly - please !
I wonder if you ' re aware of my own studies which indicate that certain cycles of the moon actually impact on the incidence of apocalyptic predictions as observed in urban emergency rooms and .
As the Professor babbles , Marilou Martin and her husband , Wayne Chang , appear and whisper .
You were great .
You ' re leaving ?
The reservation ' s at nine thirty - it ' s getting late .
Doctor Railly - please - this is very important !
You sure you ' re gonna be all right ?
I ' ll be there in twenty minutes .
Dr . Railly , I simply cannot understand your exclusion of the moon in relation to apocalyptic dementia .
A full moon .
Colleagues in a Volvo pull out of the parking lot , calling , " Congratulations " to Railly .
She waves back as she hurries to her black Acura , one of the last cars left in the lot .
The outside lights of Breitrose Hall go off .
Railly seems to be alone in the lot as she fishes keys from her purse , unlocks her car door , starts to open it when .
Suddenly , she ' s grabbed from behind in a choke - hold by a large shadowy Man looming out of the darkness behind her .
Get in !
Unable to scream , she writhes and kicks as he forces her into the front seat .
I ' ve got a gun .
Railly freezes , terrified , as he opens the rear door and scrambles in behind her .
Fighting to suppress the quiver in her voice , Railly says .
You can have my purse .
I have a lot of cash and credit .
Start the car .
Glancing in the rear view mirror , Railly sees penetrating eyes peering out of the shadows , no other features .
Half - turning in the seat , she holds out the keys to him .
Here !
You can have the keys .
You can .
He grabs her hair and yanks her head back hard , speaking fiercely into her ear , his face last in shadow .
The engine Starts , the Acura backs up , then heads for the exit .
Steering fearfully , Railly hears him speak more calmly now .
I don ' t want to hurt you .
But I will .
I ' ve hurt people before when . when I had no choice .
Turn left .
As she makes the turn , Railly glances in the rear view mirror , sees him unfolding a tattered map .
His face is lost in darkness but she glimpses ragged , torn clothing as he tries to read the map by the intermittent glow of passing street lights .
Where . where are we going .
I need you to drive me to Philadelphia .
But that ' s . that ' s more than 200 miles !
That ' s why I can ' t walk there .
Turn here .
I think .
Railly obeys .
She glances in the mirror again , hesitates , then boldly switches on the dome light , holding her breath fearfully for his reaction .
He grunts appreciatively .
Relieved , she looks in the mirror again , trying to get a better look at him , but now his features are concealed by the map .
If you make me go with you , it ' s kidnapping .
That ' s a serious crime .
If you let me go , you could just take the car and .
I don ' t know how to drive !
We went underground when I was nine , I told you that .
When you come to the corner , turn right .
Startled , Railly whirls , looks right at him .
He ' s lowered the map .
It ' s Cole !
Haggard , unshaven , dirty .
Cole !
James Cole !
You escaped from a locked room six years ago . 1989 .
Six years for you .
There ' s the sign !
Right here !
Cole is indicating a freeway entrance .
Railly turns the wheel sharply .
The Acura veers up the ramp and onto the freeway .
Railly glances in the mirror , sees Cole settling back wearily against the seat .
She says carefully .
I can ' t believe this is a coincidence , Mr . Cole .
Have you been . following me ?
You told me you ' d help me .
I know this isn ' t what you meant , but . I was desperate . no money . bum leg . sleeping on the streets .
I probably smell bad .
Sorry about that .
But then I saw your book in a store window with a notice about your lecture .
I can read , remember ?
Yes , I remember .
Why do you want to go to Philadelphia ?
It ' s the next step .
I checked out the Baltimore information , it was nothing .
It ' s Philadelphia , that ' s where they are , the ones who killed everyone .
Zs that a radio ?
Does it play music ?
Railly turns on the radio and immediately We Hear the Sound of Surf and the Cries of gulls , background to an oozing baritone Commercial .
This is a personal message to you .
Cole sits up , alert , listening intently .
Are you at the end of your rope ?
Are you dying to get away ?
Cole ' S eyes narrow , concentrating on this personal message .
The Florida Keys are waiting for you .
Cole frowns as the Sound of breaking Surf and crying Gulls fills the car .
It ' s confusing !
He blurts out .
I ' ve never seen the ocean !
Observing his confusion in the mirror , Railly assumes her professional tone .
It ' s an advertisement , Mr . Cole .
You do understand that , don ' t you ?
It ' s not really a special message to you .
Cole frowns .
He did think it was for him , but she ' s probably right .
You used to call me " James .
You ' d prefer that ? .
James . you don ' t really have a gun , do you .
Everybody ' s got a gun .
In this city .
He breaks off reacting to the Radio Music !
Fats Domino singing " Blueberry Hill !
Cole grins , mouth agape , eyes wide like a kid ' s .
Can you . can you make it louder ?
I love hearing twentieth century music !
Hearing music and breathing air !
As Railly cranks up the volume , she watches the mirror incredulously , sees him stick his head out the window into the wind , mouth open , " eating " the air hungrily .
" Blueberry Hill " Blares as the Acura , Cole ' S head out the rear window , zips past a sign at 65 mph .
The sign says , " Philadelphia 233 Miles "
Railly glances in the mirror at the nut in the rear seat with his head out the window .
what can she do ?
Just then , while she ' s trying to figure something out , an Announcer ' S Voice breaks in .
This just in from Fresno , California : emergency crews are converging on a cornfield where playmates of nine year old Ricky Neuman say they saw him disappear right before their eyes .
Cole pulls his head back inside with a frown , troubled now .
Young Neuman apparently stepped into an abandoned well shaft and is lodged somewhere in the narrow 150 foot pipe , possibly alive , possibly seriously injured .
Playmates claim they heard him cry out faintly but since then there has been no contact with . " Never cry wolf .
What ?
My father told me that .
" Never cry wolf "
Then people won ' t believe you if . something really happens .
" If something really happens . like what , James ?
Something bad .
Is that all the music ?
I don ' t want to hear this stuff .
Railly glances at him as she scans stations .
Did something terrible happen to you when you were a child ?
Something so bad ?
Ohhhh , that one !
Can we hear that one ?
It ' s Ivory Joe Hunter singing , " Since I Met You , Baby .
" Since I met you , baby , My whole life has changed .
Ecstatic , Cole sticks his head out the window again .
Cole ' S Pov : the heavens , glittering with a million stars and a lover ' s moon as Ivory Joe croons the achingly romantic lyrics . - cause since I met you , baby .
All I need is you .
Angle On Cole , wind in his hair , eyes shining , gulping air blissfully .
Two Police Officers and an anxious Marilou Martin listen to an answering machine ' s message while a hungry Cat cries plaintively .
Dr . Railly - this is Palmer from Psych Admitting .
There was a guy here this afternoon looking for you .
He seemed very agitated .
We tried to keep him , but he refused ' n I kept thinking , I know this guy .
Then , just a few minutes ago , it came to me .
It ' s Cole !
James Cole .
Remember him ?
The paranoid who pulled the Houdini back in ' 89 .
Well , he ' s back and he ' s . cuckoo . and he ' s looking for you .
I thought you oughta know .
The machine switches off .
The Police Officers exchange a look .
It ' s just as I told you - my husband and I had gone ahead - she never showed .
That ' s totally unlike her !
Do you happen to know the make of her car ?
Um . Acura ' 92 Acura . .
Also , that cat ' s starving !
She would never neglect her cat !
The Acura is parked outside room 46 of the Highways & Byways Motel , which has definitely seen better days .
The Tv is on .
A commercial is just starting .
A catfood jingle .
The sound of Heavy Breathing .
Angle On Cole , sweating , Breathing Heavily , sprawled on one side of the double bed , sound asleep .
Gunshot !
Young Cole glimpses the Blonde Man staggering , wounded .
The mysterious Brunette races past him toward the Blonde Man , and Young Cole again glimpses the resemblance to Railly , in spite of the dark hair , the make - up , the flashy earrings .
Close at hand , Young Cole ' S Father , his face still out of view , says .
Son , it ' s important for your cat to have the nourishment necessary for healthy bones and a rich coat .
Cole comes awake with a start .
He stares , disoriented , at the Catfood Commercial on the Tv .
Please untie me .
I ' m very uncomfortable .
Cole turns to Railly , beside him on the bed , frightened and helpless , her jacket arranged to restrain her like a strait - jacket .
Cole ' S instinct is to free her at once , but he controls his impulse .
He looks away , gets up , and , wincing , limps to the dresser , stepping around empty fast - food cartons .
He pulls a razor and shaving soap from a paper bag , then goes into the bathroom , leaving the door open , and starts to shave .
You were in my dream just now .
Your hair was different , but I ' m sure it was you .
We dream about what ' s important in our lives .
And I seem to have become pretty important in yours .
What was the dream about ?
About an airport . before everything happened .
It ' s the same dream I always have - the only one .
I ' m a little kid in it .
And I was in it ?
What did I do ?
You were very upset .
You ' re always very upset in the dream , but I never knew it was you before .
It wasn ' t me before , James .
It ' s become me now because of . what ' s happening .
Please untie me .
Finished shaving , Cole re - enters the bedroom , toweling his face .
No , I think it was always you .
It ' s very strange .
You ' re flushed .
And you were moaning .
I think you ' re running a fever .
What are you doing ?
Cole is rummaging through Railly ' S wallet , pulling out money .
I ' ll be back in a minute .
He heads for the door .
No ! Don ' t leave me here like this !
Too late !
He shuts the door behind him , leaving her alone .
Angle On The Tv Screen , where an Anchorman sits at a News Set .
And in Fresno , California . crews continue to attempt to rescue nine year old Ricky Neuman .
Angle On Railly , twisting and struggling on the bed , trying to get loose , tears welling in her eyes .
The boy was playing ball with four other children when he literally disappeared off the face of the earth .
Cole puzzles over a junk food vending machine , inserts coins tentatively .
Angle On Tv , the picture of Railly filling the screen .
My notes .
Observations .
Clues .
Clues ?
What kind of clues ?
A secret army .
The Army of The Twelve Monkeys .
I ' ve told you about them .
They spread the virus .
That ' s why we have to get to Philadelphia .
I have to find them - it ' s my assignment .
What will you do . when you find this . secret army ?
I just have to locate the virus in its original form before it mutates .
So scientists can come back and study it and find a cure .
So that those of us who survived can go back to the surface of the earth .
Railly maintains a professional deadpan , says nothing as they pass a pickup truck with a Mother , Father , and five Kids in the back .
Cole stares at the Kids , a sad look in his eyes .
You won ' t think I ' m crazy next month .
People are going to start dying .
At first the papers will say it ' s some weird fever , some virus .
Then they ' ll begin to catch on .
They ' ll get it .
We interrupt this program with a special bulletin .
Railly and Cole both react to the radio , suddenly alert .
This report just in from Fresno , California .
Naval sonar specialists who were flown to the site .
I thought it was about us .
I thought maybe they ' d found us and arrested me or something .
Railly stares at Cole .
Just a joke .
- an hour ago have been unable to determine the location of the boy in the 150 foot shaft . but a Tv sound man who lowered an ultra - sensitive microphone into the narrow tube claims he heard breathing sounds coming from approximately seventy feet down .
Cole reaches over and changes stations . Music again .
Does that disturb you , James ?
Thinking about that little boy in the well ?
When I was a kid I identified with that kid , down there alone in that pipe . a hundred feet down - doesn ' t know if they ' re going to save him .
What do you mean - when you were a kid ?
Nevermind .
It ' s not real - it ' s a hoax .
A prank .
He ' s hiding in a barn .
Hey , turn left here .
Left !
Cole quickly checks the map as Railly stares , then turns left .
An elderly Evangelist with long stringy hair , wearing a tattered bathrobe , stands on a Skid Row corner Waving a worn Bible as he rants at disinterested Derelicts , Winos , and Bag Ladies .
" And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses and dragons in their pleasant palaces : and her time is near to come , and her days shall not be prolonged .
Angle On Railly ' S Acura , crawling down the street , Railly driving , Cole , beside her , staring out the window .
Cole is scrutinizing the crumbling walls , boarded - up store fronts , tattered posters , decaying signs , miserable " Residents .
Where I come from we think of this as Eden .
If we could just see the sun , eat sun - grown food .
Eden !
Look at them !
They donut know what they have .
They don ' t see the sky .
They don ' t feel the air !
Cole ' S Pov : a Bmw speeds toward them , passes , its radio Blaring !
And the ones who aren ' t hungry are so smug they haven ' t a clue .
Wait ! Stop !
On foot now , Cole pulls an astonished Railly to a wall covered with graffiti , a hopeless tangle of symbols , words , and crude pictures .
Clueless , Railly stares at the wall , then at Cole .
Cole touches a bit of red - stenciled graffiti hidden under gang insignias .
We can just see Twelve Monkeys holding hands in a circle .
The Twelve Monkeys !
They ' re here .
Somewhere .
Come on !
He pulls her along the sidewalk .
No question , he ' s insane .
At the next alley entrance , Cole stops abruptly .
Then , still keeping a firm grip on Railly ' S arm , he starts ripping down newly tacked - up posters announcing a Rap concert .
Railly stares at him , then turns and is looking all around when , suddenly , Cole pulls her up tight and threatens .
Look , I ' m warning you .
You do anything , I ' m going to go crazy - hurt people !
I ' m not going to " do " anything , I promise .
But you need help , James .
None of this is what you think it is .
Angle On Cole , not listening , staring triumphantly !
He ' s found another partially obscured stencil of The Twelve Monkeys !
But just then , a raspy Voice startles Cole .
You can ' t hide from them , Bob . Cole whirls , sees a derelict , Louie , leering at him , speaking in a voice eerily like the Raspy Voice from the next cell in the future .
No , sir , Old Bob - don ' t even try .
They hear everything .
They got that tracking device on you .
They can find you anywhere .
Anytime .
Ha Ha !
Railly looks from Louis to Cole , sees Cole ' S stunned reaction .
In the tooth , Bob !
Right ?
But I fooled ' em , old buddy !
He opens his mouth wide .
No Teeth ' Cole grabs Railly and pulls her into the alley and down it .
They ' re keeping an eye on me .
Who ' s keeping an eye on you ?
The man . with the voice .
I recognized him .
He ' s from the present .
He . Cole breaks off , freezes as he sees . there on a brick wall is a stencil of the Dancing Monkeys And further on , another red stencil !
Crackheads huddle against a building , sucking their pipes , oblivious to Cole pulling Railly past .
Cole scans the walls for messages in the confusion of graffiti .
Railly is considering her surroundings dubiously when , suddenly , Cole pulls her toward the mouth of a dark and forbidding alley .
James , no - we shouldn ' t be here !
Cole ignores her , yanking her after him into the alley .
Two Tom Cats face off , arching their backs and Hissing menacingly .
Cole avoids them as he pulls Railly into the gloom .
Angle On Railly , seeing something alarming twenty yards ahead !
Railly ' S Pov :
Two Thugs , standing over a Man , kicking him .
Railly tries to stop , but Cole , intent on the wall messages , doesn ' t notice the Thugs .
The Two Thugs turn and spot Cole and Railly moving toward them .
These creeps have mean eyes , predator faces .
Railly digs her heels in , forcing Cole to stop .
James !
We have to go back .
Those men .
Too late .
While Cole turns and stares at her , uncomprehending , the Two Thugs are approaching .
Hey , buddy .
Startled , Cole turns to face them .
The Second Thug lunges for Railly ' S purse , yanks it from her .
Cole reaches to grab it back , but . Whack !
The First Thug smacks Cole hard across the face with something metallic .
Bloody - faced , dazed , Cole doesn ' t even have a chance to clear his head as the First Thug shoves the hard object against Cole ' S cheek .
It ' s a cheap thirty - eight pistol .
Railly turns to run , gets two steps before the Second Thug knocks her roughly to the ground .
Stick around , bitch .
Looming over her , the Second Thug starts to unzip his fly .
Railly looks over to Cole , Sees .
Cole dropping to his knees , groveling at the First Thug ' S feet .
Please !
Please don ' t hurt me !
The First Thug steps close , kicks Cole contemptuously , cocks his foot for a second kick when . Cole uncoils , lunging , rising , his strong arms around the bigger man ' s calves , lifting him mightily , high off the ground .
The gun Fires wildly as Cole staggers forward with the First Thug in his arms and smashes the man into the brick wail behind him .
The First Thug goes down in a heap , dropping the pistol .
Zipping his fly hastily , the Second Thug turns to deal with Cole but Cole attacks him . rocking him again and again with savage blows that come one after another with lightning speed .
The Second Thug staggers back , bloody and dazed as Railly watches , amazed .
Turning back to the First Thug , Cole sees the Man reaching for the dropped pistol .
Cole kicks him viciously in the jaw .
The First Thug ' S head whips back .
Snap !
He collapses against the brick wall .
Cole turns back to see the Second Thug retreating down the alley as fast as he can stagger .
Railly stares up at Cole .
He looks very dangerous .
He glances in her direction as he pockets the pistol .
Are you hurt ?
Uh , no .
Yes .
I mean , just some scrapes .
As Railly gets to her feet , she sees Cole bend over the motionless Thug and quickly go through his pockets .
Is he . alive ?
Cole ignores the question as he pockets the man ' s wallet and a handful of bullets , then turns and snaps at Railly .
Come an .
We ' re running out of time .
You can ' t help him .
As Cole yanks her roughly away , she looks back , sees the First Thug ' S sightless eyes , wide open . staring blankly .
Oh , Jesus , James !
You killed him !
I did him a favor .
Now come on .
Cole , pulling her again , sees more " 12 Monkeys " on the wall .
You didn ' t have a gun before , did you ?
I ' ve got one now .
The Evangelist , spotting Cole and Railly hurrying past him , points urgently at Cole .
You !
You !
You ' re one of us , aren ' t you ?
But Cole has stopped and is staring at .
A Storefront Office .
its windows covered with posters .
The sign over the office says , Freedom For Animals Association .
Earnest young activists , Fale , deathly pale , Ben , long haired , and Teddy , muscular , are gathered around a counter collating leaflets that demand an End To Specieism .
Behind them , a large poster proclaims , " Animals Have Souls , Too .
Just then , there ' s a tremendous Clap Of Thunder as the Activists look up and see Cole and Railly enter .
Cole looks startled .
It sounds like torrential Rain Pouring in here .
Maintaining a tight grip on Railly ' S wrist , he looks around frantically for an explanation for the tropical downpour .
Bookshelves line two walls .
The front window is blanked cut with posters of Animal Rights demonstrations , newspaper clippings , photos of animal atrocities .
The fourth wall features the counter where the three Activists face Cole as a Jungle Bird Screams in the Downpour .
Uh , can we help you ?
Cole looks confused as the Rain abates and an Elephant trumpets an urgent warning .
Excuse me .
You looking for something in particular ?
It ' s all right , James - it ' s just a tape .
Cole ' S eyes follow her look .
It ' s a tape recorder underneath a sign advertising , " The True Music Of The World .
I , uh , I ' m looking for the , ah , the Army of the Twelve Monkeys .
Fale glances at Ben and Teddy .
" We have a problem "
the look says .
Monkeys start Chattering on the tape as Teddy comes around the counter , bigger than Cole , physically imposing , menacing .
We don ' t know anything about any " Army of the Twelve Monkeys , so why don ' t you and your friend disappear , okay ?
Cole backs away , a firm grip on Railly , as a Lion Roars .
I just need some information .
Didn ' t you hear me ?
We ' re not .
Teddy breaks off mid - sentence . freezes .
Cole is pointing a pistol at them .
A Tiger Snarls .
James , no - don ' t hurt them .
Please , I ' m a psychiatrist - just do whatever he tells you to do .
He ' s . upset - disturbed .
Please - he ' s dangerous - just cooperate .
Monkeys Chatter wildly as Teddy backs up .
What do you want - money ?
We only have a few bucks .
Cole is suddenly very much in charge and self - confident again .
A Baboon Howls with laughter .
I told you what I want .
Lock the door !
James , why don ' t we ?
Lock it now !
Railly hurries to the door to lock it as Ben says to Fale .
I told you that fuckhead Mason would get us into something like this .
Shut up !
Mason ?
Jeffrey Mason ?
Yeah , tucking , crazy Jeffrey Mason .
The three Activists are tied tightly together in the middle of the floor in this dimly - lit , windowless basement .
They ' re very frightened , eager to cooperate .
Then , Jeffrey becomes like this . big star - the media latch on to him because he ' s picketing his own father , a " famous Nobel Prize winning virologist .
You musta seen all that on Tv .
No , I don ' t watch Tv .
Cole , the gun next to him , rummages through boxes of papers while Railly watches helplessly .
Suddenly , Cole finds something he thinks he ' s seen before .
He holds it up .
Is this him - Dr . Mason ?
It ' s a photograph of Dr .
Malcolm Mason , being escorted by a phalanx of riot cops through a mob of raging activists .
That ' s him .
What are you going to do with us ?
Tell me more about Jeffrey .
Jeffrey started getting bored with the shit we do . picketing , leafleting , letter - writing stuff .
He said we were , " ineffectual liberal jerkoffs .
He wanted to do guerrilla " actions " to " educate " the public .
Cole holds up a clipping showing horrified Senators standing on their desks as Rattlesnakes slither along the Senate Floor .
Yeah , that ' s when he let a hundred snakes loose in the Senate .
But we weren ' t into that kind of stuff .
It ' s counter productive , we told him .
So he and eleven others split off and became this underground " army .
The Army of The Twelve Monkeys .
They started planning a " Human Hunt .
They bought stun guns and nets and bear traps .
They were gonna go to Wall Street and trap lawyers and bankers .
But they didn ' t do it .
They didn ' t do any of it .
Yeah , just like always , Mr . Big Shot sold his friends out !
What ' s that mean ?
He goes on Tv , gives a news conference , tells the whole world he just realized his daddy ' s experiments are vital for humanity and that the use of animals is absolutely necessary and that he , Jeffrey Mason , from now on , is going to personally supervise the labs to make sure all the little animals aren ' t going to suffer .
What ' s this ?
In the crawling traffic , We Find a battered Ford covered with bumper stickers and painted slogans .
" I Brake For Animals .
You can ' t just barge in on a famous scientist .
They ' ll have security guards , gates , alarm systems .
It ' s insane , James .
A Rolodex Card with an address on " Outerbridge Road " for " Jeffrey Mason c / o Dr . Malcolm Mason " rests on a map spread across Cole ' S lap .
Cole is in the passenger seat , Railly ' S at the wheel , maneuvering in heavy traffic .
If those young men don ' t get loose , they could die in that basement .
Cole glances out the window , indicates the People in passing cars . Commuters , Families , Truckers .
All I see are dead people .
Everywhere .
What ' s three more ?
You know Dr . Mason ' s son , Jeffrey Mason , don ' t you , James ?
You met him in the County Hospital six years ago .
Cole is studying the map again .
The guy was a total fruitcake .
And he told you then his father was a famous virologist .
Cole is absorbed in the map , his finger tracing " Outerbridge Road .
No - he said his father was " God !
The Radio Blares a country song as the Ford zips along an open highway .
Cole has his head out the window , sucking air , loving the music , but his bliss is feverish now - he ' s not well .
As the Song ends , he pulls his head inside .
An Announcer ' S Voice intones over the Radio .
This just in : police are widening their search for Dr . Kathryn Railly , prominent psychiatrist and author .
Authorities confirm that Dr . Railly has been abducted by escaped mental patient , James Cole .
The two are believed to be traveling in Railly ' s 1992 black Acura , license plate H - E - A - D - D - R . Railly glances at him , sees he ' s in pain .
She feels so badly for him .
She wants to help him .
She says , tenderly .
This can ' t go on , James .
You ' re not well .
You ' re burning with fever .
Cole , refusing to succumb , instead , leans over to check the gas gauge .
We need gas .
I thought you didn ' t know how to drive .
I said I was too young to drive .
I didn ' t say I was stupid .
What ' s the matter with your leg ?
I got shot .
Look - there ' s a gas station up ahead .
Shot !
Who shot you ?
It was some kind of . war .
Never mind , you wouldn ' t believe me .
Turn off here .
The Gas Station Attendant checks the oil while Cole and Railly remain in the car .
She ' s pulling a gas card from her wallet .
You were going to run out off gas on purpose , weren ' t you ?
No . I want you to turn yourself in , James - It ' ll go much better for you if you do - but I ' m not going to trick you .
That has your name on it .
Give him cash .
Railly puts the card back into her wallet and pulls out cash as the Gas Station Attendant slams the hood down .
Railly starts opening the door .
Alarmed , Cole tries to stop her .
Where are you going ?
She looks him in the eye , then indicates the tiny Convenience Store appended to the Gas Station .
You can come with me .
I have to get some things .
Scissors , bandages , some alcohol or whiskey .
.
I have to look at your leg , James .
I ' m a doctor .
Cole looks helpless , hesitant .
She ' s in charge . for the moment .
The sun dazzles through the canopy of leaves .
We Hear the Car Radio but not the engine .
Meanwhile in Fresno , where mining engineers continue their desperate attempt to sink a shaft parallel to the ant in which nine year old . Cole , in his underwear , leans back on a large rock beside the Ford , his pants hanging on the car ' s open door .
He ' s staring up at the sun and the sky .
Railly finishes bandaging his thigh .
You shouldn ' t put your weight on it .
You need stitches and antibiotics .
Lucky for you it was near the surface .
Railly wraps the bullet in some gauze and sticks it in her pocket while Cole continues staring up at the sky .
I love seeing the sun .
A beat .
Cole tries to stand up .
Wait - let me help you .
Railly puts an arm around him and helps him to his feet .
A beat .
They ' re very close .
They don ' t move .
Railly looks like she can barely breathe .
You smell so good .
You have to give yourself up , you know .
A beat .
The spell is broken .
He reaches for his pants , then turns back to her , suddenly grim .
I have to do something now .
Something I don ' t want to do .
I ' m so sorry .
Railly reacts , sudden fear in her eyes .
He looms over her .
He ' s cold now , steeled .
I have a mission .
It ' s important .
Railly steps back . horrified , realizing she ' s going to die .
A Secret Service Agent ambles vigilantly among the rows of luxury cars parked beside the brightly - lit rural mansion .
Encountering another Agent , he pauses .
They find him ?
Who ?
That kid .
The one in the pipe .
You believe this ?
They ' re dropping a monkey down there with a miniature infra - red camera strapped on him and a roast beef sandwich wrapped in tinfoil .
You ' re making that up !
Angle Under A Parked Mercedes , where Cole is hiding , listening to the receding Voices of the Agents .
I shit you not . .
Man , life is weird !
A monkey and a sandwich .
Wonder who thought that one up .
Probly give the sonafabitch a Nobel Prize !
Quickly , Cole rolls to the next car and under it .
He doesn ' t see . the pistol fell out of his pocket , under the Mercedes .
A formal dinner for forty .
Desert has been served .
Dr .
Malcolm Mason rises to the enthusiastic applause of the Guests .
Would that I could enjoy this opulent dinner and this excellent and stimulating company for itself , with no sense of purpose .
But alas , I am " burdened " with the sense that with all this excess of public attention and this cacophony of praise , there comes great responsibility .
Indeed , I practically feel a soapbox growing under my feet whenever I stand for more than a few seconds .
While Guests laugh at Dr .
Mason ' S last remark , Secret Service Agent # 3 enters the room , scowling , looking for someone .
The dangers of science are a time worn threat , from Prometheus stealing fire from the Gods to the Cold War era of the Dr . Strangelove Terror .
Agent # 3 spots who he ' s looking for .
Jeffrey Mason !
But never before , not even at Los Alamos when the scientists made bets on whether their first atomic bomb test would wipe out New Mexico , has science given us so much reason to fear the power we have at hand .
Angle On Jeffrey , as Agent # 3 whispers in his ear .
What are you talking about ?
What friend ?
I ' m not expecting anyone .
Angle On Dr . Mason , reacting with irritation to the disturbance .
Current genetic engineering as well as my own work with viruses has presented us with powers as terrifying as any . Angle On Jeffrey , following the Agent out of the dining room , grumbling loudly enough to disturb his father ' s audience .
This is ridiculous .
My father is making a major address .
The conversation continues as Jeffrey and Agent # 3 enter the hall .
Normally if we caught a guy sneaking around like this with no I . D , we ' d bust his ass , excuse the French , but this one said he knows you . - and , since you seem to have had some . uh . unusual .
uh " associates , we certainly didn ' t want to arrest one of your , uh , closest . pals .
Cole , smudged with dirt and car grease , sitting in the shadows in a wingback chair , looks up as Jeffrey and Agent # 3 enter the room .
A Fourth Agent looms beside the wingback chair .
Never saw him before in my life .
Go ahead and shoot him or torture him or whatever it is you do .
You do know me .
You helped me once .
That would be totally out of character .
Helping people is against my principles .
See , he definitely doesn ' t know me .
Now , I ' m going to go back and listen to my father ' s very eloquent discourse on the perils of science While You Torture
This I ' m here about some monkeys .
Halfway out the door , Jeffrey freezes .
A beat .
Excuse me - what did you say ?
Monkeys .
Twelve of them .
Jeffrey frowns , turns , considers Cole .
Then , suddenly , Jeffrey rushes to Cole and embraces him .
Arnold . Arnold .
Cole is astonished .
The Agents are , too .
My God , Arnie , what ' s happened to you ?
You look like shit .
You know this man ?
Of course I know him .
What do you think - I act like this to strangers ?
Listen - you fellas are terrific .
I thought you were pulling a number on me .
What a terrible thing if you ' d thrown old Arnie out .
I owe you guys the big apologia !
Mea culpa , fellas .
Christ , Arnie , it ' s black tie !
I mean , I said , " drop by " but , like , this is Dad ' s big " do . vips , senators , secret service , and . and everything .
Jeffrey throws an arm around Cole ' S shoulder and starts leading him toward the door as the two Agents exchange narrow - eyed looks .
" Arnie .
Arnold Pettibone .
Old Arnie Pettibone .
Used to be my best friend .
Still is .
What ' ve you lost , Arnie - forty pounds ?
No wonder I didn ' t know you .
You hungry ?
Lots of dead cow , dead lamb , dead pig .
Real killer feast we ' re putting on tonight .
The Agents watch Jeffrey lead the limping , disheveled Cole out .
These people - all of ' em - are true weirdoes !
I ' m gonna call in a description of this " Pettibone " character .
You go keep an eye on him .
Make sure he doesn ' t do one of the guests with a fork .
Guests pouring from the dining room into the hall meet Jeffrey and a very disconcerted Cole .
Hey , nice ta see ya . Lookin ' good !
Hi , there .
Yes , it has been a long time .
In the b . g , too far away to hear them , Agent # 4 trails Jeffrey and Cole as they maneuver through the Guests toward the grand staircase .
County Hospital , right ? 1989 .
The " Immaculate Escape " - am I right ?
Why , thank you - you look wonderful , too .
Listen to me - I can ' t do anything about what you ' re going to do .
I can ' t change anything .
I can ' t stop you .
I just want some information .
We need to talk .
Come on .
Upstairs .
I am a new person !
I ' m completely adjusted .
Witness the tux .
It ' s Armani .
Who chattered ?
Goines ?
Weller ?
I just need to have access to the pure virus , that ' s all !
For the future !
Jeffrey studies Cole .
Cole doesn ' t just talk crazy .
He looks crazy !
Come on , follow me .
You don ' t lock so good .
Jeffrey starts guiding Cole up the grand staircase as Cole , glancing back , spots Agent # 3 and Agent # 4 , both keeping an eye on him now .
I don ' t have time to go upstairs .
The police are looking for me .
I need to know where it is and exactly what it is .
I get it !
This is your old plan , right ?
Plan ?
What are you talking about ?
Remember ?
We were in the dayroom , watching Tv , and you were all upset about the . desecration of the planet .
And you said to me , " Wouldn ' t it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are "
You do remember that , don ' t you ?
Bulishit !
You ' re fucking with my head !
And that ' s when I told you my father was this famous virologist and you said , " Hey , he could make a germ and we could steal it .
Listen , you dumb fuck !
The thing mutates We live underground !
The world belongs to the fucking dogs and cats .
We ' re like moles or worms .
All we want to do is study the original .
Okay - take it easy .
We know who you are , Mr . Cole .
Cole feels a firm grip on his shoulder , turns and sees Agert # 4 .
Let ' s go somewhere and talk this thing over .
Okay ?
Just come with me .
You ' re right !
Absolutely right .
Me ' s a nut case , totally deranged .
Delusional !
Paranoid .
His Processor ' S All Fucked Agent # 4 is wishing Jeffrey would chill out even as the Third Agent is climbing up the staircase to help .
Cole is like a trapped animal .
He ' s being led down the staircase now with Jeffrey , right on his heels , yelling so Everyone can hear .
Cole stares back at Jeffrey as both Agents hustle Cole down the stairs .
It sounds true !
Jeffrey ' S so confident .
Take it easy , Mr . Mason , we ' ve got him .
Everything ' s . Suddenly , Cole , catching the Agents by surprise , wrenches free , shoves them aside , and stumbles down the rest of the staircase .
Cole heads for the front door , but there ' s an Agent there !
Cole turns and limps madly toward the dining room , pushing his way through the crowd of amazed Guests .
Servants , clearing the table , look up astonished as two Agents burst into the room .
Did a man just come through here .
limping ?
Cooks stare , amazed , as two Other Agents burst into the kitchen and look about urgently .
A large projection Tv is on and a knot of Guests is gathered in front of it . watching the spooky Video Images .
These pictures we are seeing are coming to us live from deep inside the pipe .
You can just make out the metal wall behind those roots and I guess those must be spider webs .
Mrs . Mccann , a guest , watching the Tv , expresses concern .
Well , if you ask me , I think that monkey is going to eat the sandwich himself .
Just then , two Agents burst into the den .
The Guests turn from the Tv , startled , stare open - mouthed , but the Agents have spotted an open window and are hurrying to it .
Agents Pov Out The Window : the rows of expensive parked Cars .
On The Tv Screen , Railly ' S photograph appears .
This just in : Police say that the body of a woman found strangled in the Knutson state Park could be kidnap victim , Dr . Kathryn Railly .
As the Agents run out of the room , a photo of Railly ' S abandoned Acura comes up on the Tv screen .
Earlier in the day , police located Railly ' s abandoned car not far from a building where three animal rights activists were found bound and gagged .
Pistols drawn , Agents move cautiously among the rows of parked luxury cars , checking inside and under the vehicles .
Cole , scrunched down on the floor next to the driver ' s seat , spots the key dangling from the ignition , then lifts his head slightly to study the shift mechanism , trying to figure it out .
Agents continue to move cautiously among the parked cars .
Cole eases himself into the driver ' s seat , tentatively slides the shift into " Drive , then turns the key .
Nothing happens .
Panic .
Cole studies the shift again .
Agent # 5 approaches the row where the Jaguar is parked .
Cole slides the shift from D to N .
He twists the key again .
The engine Roars . Seven Thousand Rpm !
Agent # 5 whirls at the sound .
Smash .
The Jaguar clips the Mercedes parked in front of it and accelerates right at him !
Agent # 5 dives aside just as the speeding Jaguar whizzes past him , slams into a parked Cadillac , bounces off , grinds between two other parked vehicles with a fierce scream of tearing metal .
Caught between two cars , Cole can only lean on the gas pedal .
The Jaguar comes free with a great Scccreeeeech .
Cole sees the driveway ahead in the moonlight .
Steering madly , he plows through shrubs and gardens heading for the driveway .
Lights off , veering wildly , the Jaguar reaches the driveway .
Agents are leaping into cars and a Helicopter is coming to life , its rotors whipping around .
Cole turns onto the road , careening crazily from one side to the other , unable to see ahead with no headlights .
He starts hitting switches .
The wipers come on , the Radio Blares .
- when they pulled the monkey out , it was still clutching the tinfoil wrapped sandwich .
Rounding a bend , an Oncoming Car heads straight at Cole .
Cole yanks the wheel as the Other Car , horn Blaring , just misses him .
Recovering , Cole loses the road , speeds crazily along the shoulder .
The Pilot , an agent , steers the chopper while the Co - Pilot pans a spotlight over the two lane road beneath them .
Just then , the Pilot sees headlights below .
There !
He ' s showing lights .
Cole can see the road now in his headlights as the windshield wipers scrape frantically and the Radio Blares .
We don ' t know what to think .
They didn ' t locate him and they don ' t know how much longer he can last , that ' s assuming the boy is still alive .
A spotlight hits the car and Cole hears the sound of the Helicopter as it lowers over him !
The Helicopter maneuvers over the speeding Jaguar .
Cole can see the underbelly of the Helicopter a few feet above his front windshield .
Desperate , he yanks the wheel hard , veering off the road .
Cole ' S Pov Through The Windshield : dense woods ahead .
The chopper pulls up sharply , avoiding the trees , then levels out .
The Pilot skims the top of the trees while the Co - Pilot rakes the forest below with his spotlight .
Goddamnit !
Where is he ?
The Co - Pilot gets a brief glimpse of headlights through the leaves .
There !
Over there . Where ?
Eight o ' clock !
He was right there .
The headlights are gone .
Nothing but darkness below .
He musta turned his lights of if .
Couldn ' t drive down there without lights .
We just can ' t see ' em .
Maybe he ' s not driving !
A weather forecast Blares from the radio of the steaming Jaguar , crumpled into a tree , the driver ' s door open .
A Police Officer , pistol drawn , approaches the car cautiously , as Other Officers and Agents stay behind trees , weapons ready .
The Police Officer lunges forward , pointing his weapon into the Jaguar .
He inspects the car , then turns and calls out .
He ' s not in here .
Limping , bleeding from various cuts , Cole Crashes through underbrush as he follows a stream through the woods .
Suddenly , he sees what he ' s looking for .
The Ford . barely visible in the moonlight , parked in the trees beside the stream .
The car looks empty .
Total blackness !
The sound of keys in the lock .
Then , the trunk swings open and Cole stands in the moonlight , looking down Railly is in the trunk , tears of rage and frustration in her eyes .
You bastard !
You total bastard !
Cole backs away , as Railly scrambles out of the trunk , swinging .
He slips , falls , and she starts kicking him as she rants hysterically .
I could have died in there .
If something had happened to you I would have died .
Cole is lying on the ground , looking up , his lip caked with blood .
I .
I . I ' m really sorry .
Noticing his cuts and torn clothes , she stops kicking him .
What have you done ?
Did you . kill someone ?
No !
I . don ' t think so .
I stole a car and they chased me .
I hit a tree .
See - you can drive after all !
Yeah , sort of , I guess .
I . I ' m
sorry I locked you up .
I thought .
I thought .
I think maybe I am crazy !
She looks at him .
Breakthrough ?
Very calm now , the doctor .
What made you think that ?
Jeffrey Mason said it was my idea about the virus .
And suddenly , I wasn ' t sure .
We talked when I was in the institution , and it was all . fuzzy .
The drugs and stuff .
You think maybe I ' m the one who wiped out the human race ?
It was my idea ?
Nobody is going to wipe out the human race .
Not you or Jeffrey or anybody else .
You ' ve created something in your mind , James - a substitute reality .
In order to avoid something you don ' t want to face .
I ' m " mentally divergent .
I would love to believe that .
It can be dealt with , but only if you want to .
I can help you .
Cole reacts to the sound of Voices in the woods , dogs Barking .
I need help all right .
They ' re coming after me .
First , it ' s important that you surrender to them instead of them catching you running .
Okay ?
It would be great if I ' m crazy .
If I ' m wrong about everything . the world will be okay .
I ' ll never have to live underground .
Give me the gun .
The gun ! .
I lost it .
You ' re sure ?
No gun !
Stars !
Air !
I can live here .
Breathe !
Railly starts around to the front of the car .
I ' m going to attract their attention , let them know where we are ,
okay ?
Railly gets in the driver ' s seat . and starts to Honk the horn .
They ' ll tell you to put your hands on top of your head .
Do what they tell you .
You ' re going to get better , James - I know it !
Angle On Cole , spotting something on the ground .
An insect !
He reaches down to grab it , but , instead , grins , grabs some grass , stands , and starts rubbing it happily all over his face .
The Horn Blares as Cole looks up at the sky .
Angle On The Night Sky , the moon full , the sky rich with stars .
Angle On Cole , tears of joy running down his face .
I love this world !
Angle On Railly , in the driver ' s seat , hearing near - by Shouts from the woods .
The police are almost here .
She gets out of the car , starts around toward Cole .
Remember , I ' m going to help you .
I ' ll stay with you .
I won ' t let them .
She breaks off mid - sentence . stares , stunned !
Cole is gone .
Disappeared .
Railly is being " debriefed " by Police Officers and Fbi Agents .
Then I said something to him about cooperating and he said he would do that , so I got in the car and started honking the horn .
When I got out , he was gone .
You lucked out .
For a while we thought you were a body they found down state . mutilated .
A Cop enters , hands a photo to Lieutenant Halperin who studies it .
He wouldn ' t do something like that - he .
This the man he attacked ?
Railly looks at the photo , an 8 x 10 of the First Thug , slumped against the alley wall , obviously dead .
I ' d like to be clear about this .
That man and the other one were " severely " beating us .
James Cole didn ' t start it .
In fact - he saved me !
Funny thing , Doctor , maybe you can explain it to me , you being a psychiatrist - why do kidnap victims almost always try to tell us about the guys who grabbed ' em and try to make us understand how kind these bastards really were ?
It ' s a normal reaction to a life - threatening situation .
He ' s sick .
He thinks he comes from the future .
He ' s been living in a carefully constructed fantasy world and that world is starting to disintegrate .
He needs help !
Young Cole stares , eyes wide .
He sees the Brunette , cradling the head of the Blonde Man as he sprawls on the concourse . Wake up !
Wake up !
I think we gave him too much .
Cole blinks awake .
All he can see are blurry faces hovering over him , hammering him with questions .
Come on , Cole , cooperate !
Spit it out .
you went to the home of a famous virologist .
You . don ' t . exist !
You ' re in my mind .
What ?
What ' s that ?
What did he say ?
His brain ' s fried .
Give him another shot !
The Tv shows film of Railly leaving the police station .
The kidnap victim seemed exhausted but apparently unharmed by her 30 hour ordeal as she left the police station in Philadelphia this morning .
So far she has refused to make a public statement .
Railly ' S friends , Marilou and Wayne , are watching the Tv .
A door opens and Kathryn Railly , wearing a robe , comes out of her bedroom .
She still looks exhausted Followed by her cat , she enters the kitchen area and turns on the kettle as Wayne hastily turns down the Tv .
Sorry .
No - I ' m in a state of hyper - alertness .
I can ' t sleep .
Did you take the sedative ?
I hate those things .
They mess my head up .
The old mug shot of Cole appears on the screen and Railly remotes the volume up .
Along with the kidnapping of the Baltimore woman , James Cole is now also wanted in connection with the brutal slaying of Rodney Wiggins , an ex - convict from .
Railly goes to the window , pushes aside the drape , and sees .
Her Pov : Across The Street .
A Cop keeps watch .
Do they really expect him to come here ?
Railly returns to the kitchen area where Marilou is getting the tea things out .
And in Fresno , California .
He ' s dead , isn ' t he - that little boy ?
He ' s fine .
It was just a " prank " he and his friends pulled .
Angle On The Tv Screen , showing footage of a sheepish nine year old boy being led out of a barn by the police .
The cops look grim .
Authorities have so far been noncommittal about whether they will try to file charges against the families of the children involved in the hoax .
Railly stares at the Tv , stunned .
Voices !
Singing !
Cole blinks awake , looks around , confused , then stares in disbelief .
Crowded around Cole ' S bed , the Scientists are concluding a ragged , out of tune , rendition of " Blueberry Hill .
- found my thrills on Blueberry Hill .
Seeing he ' s awake , Scientists break off the song and applaud .
Well done , James !
Well done !
Nice going !
Congratulations !
Good for you !
During your " interview " while you were " under the influence " you told us you liked music !
Cole , confused , looks around , sees he ' s in a one - bed windowless room adorned with cheap reproductions of 19th and 20th century landscapes .
The Botanist responds to Cole ' S obvious disbelief with a friendly smile and the others join in rapid fire , overlapping .
This isn ' t the prison , James .
This is a hospital .
But just until you recover your , uh . equilibrium .
You ' re still a little . disoriented .
Stress !
Time travel !
You stood up very well , considering .
Superior work !
Superior !
You connected the Army of the 12 Monkeys to a world famous virologist and his son .
Others will take over now .
We ' ll be back on the surface in a matter of months .
We ' ll retake the planet .
We ' re very close !
Because of you !
This is it , James . what you ' ve been working for .
A full pardon !
You ' ll be out of here in no time .
Women will want to get to know you .
Unseen until now , two guards , Tiny and Scarface , suddenly break through the ring of Scientists , push Cole down , and tighten the loose restraints , already in place , but unnoticed before .
Of course you want to be well , James .
And you will be . soon .
Cole bursts into hysterical laughter .
Close On Kathryn Railly , insisting fiercely to someone .
He not only used the word " prank " - he said the boy was hiding in a barn .
Railly ' s talking to her former boss , Dr .
Owen Fletcher , psychiatrist sitting across from her in his office , tapping his pen .
He kidnapped you , Kathryn .
You saw him murder someone .
You knew there was a real possibility he would kill you , too .
You were under tremendous emotional stress .
For God sakes , Owen , listen to me - he knew about the boy in Fresno and he says three billion people are going to die !
Kathryn , you know he can ' t possibly know that .
You ' re a rational person .
You ' re a trained psychiatrist .
You know the difference between what ' s real and what ' s not .
And what we believe is what ' s accepted as " truth " now , isn ' t it , Owen ?
Psychiatry - it ' s the latest religion .
And we ' re the priests - we decide what ' s right and what ' s wrong - we decide who ' s crazy and who isn ' t .
.
I ' m in trouble , Owen .
I ' m losing my faith .
Alone in his " hospital " room , Cole struggles without success to free himself from his restraints .
You sure fucked up , Bob ! Startled , Cole freezes , then ignores the Raspy Voice and continues his feverish struggle .
But I can understand you don ' t want your mistakes pointed out to you .
I can relate to that , old Bob .
Cole looks around in spite of himself .
Nothing to see but the walls and the landscape paintings .
Hey , I know what you ' re thinking .
You ' re thinking I don ' t exist except in your head .
I can see that point of view .
But you could still talk to me , couldn ' t you ?
Carry on a decent conversation ?
I saw you !
In 1995 !
In the real world !
You were a bum !
You pulled out your teeth .
Why would I pull out my teeth , Bob ?
They don ' t like that .
That ' s a no - no .
And when did you say you saw me ?
Yelling won ' t get you what you want .
You have to be smart to get what you want .
Oh , yeah ?
What do I want ?
You don ' t know what you want ?
Sure you do , Bob .
You know what you want .
Cole , agitated , rocks back and forth .
Then . Tell me .
Tell me what I want .
To see the sky - and the ocean - to be topside - breathe the air - to be with her .
.
Isn ' t that right ?
Isn ' t that what you want ?
Completely shaken , Cole hesitates for a long moment .
When he speaks , it comes out of him like air . a whisper .
More . than . anything .
Railly ' S in bed , asleep , having a very bad dream .
Suddenly , the bedside phone Rings .
Her eyes snap open .
A beat to orient herself .
Ring .
She reaches for the phone .
Close On Halperin , at his desk , talking into the phone .
Dr . Railly ?
Jim Halperin , Philly P . D .
Sorry to call so early but .
Close On Railly , eager , concerned .
into the phone .
You found him ?
Is he all right ?
Close On Halpepin , noting her reaction with raised eyebrows giving an " I told you so " look to the Black Plainclothes cop across his desk , then continuing into the phone .
Au contraire , Doctor .
No sign of your good friend , the kidnapper .
However , the plot thickens .
I have a ballistic report on my desk that says the bullet you claim you removed from Mr . Cole ' s thigh is an antique . and all indications are it was fired .
sometime prior to 1920 .
Angle On Railly , reacting , stunned .
Angle On Halperin , continuing soberly now .
So what I was thinking was , maybe if I sent a detective down there to talk with you , you could maybe revise or amplify on the circumstances .
Hello ? Hello ? Dr . Railly ?
Halperin considers the dead phone , glances at the Cop again .
Her hand still on the receiver , Railly looks shocked .
Then , she hurries into her study and starts frantically pulling neatly arranged piles of papers and books from a bookcase until she finds a copy of her book .
She leafs through it hurriedly , locates the picture of the Puerto Rican Kid in Wwi .
Peering closely , she tries to see everything in the picture .
Then , she turns and reaches for a research folder of old photographs and rummages through it until she finds !
It ' s an uncropped shot of Jose being carried on the stretcher in the trenches .
And there in the corner with no helmet , no gas mask , and just a bit of bare shoulder showing . it ' s Cole !
Clean shaven , clear eyed , Cole sits before the frowning Scientists .
The food , the sky , the certain , uh , sexual temptations - you haven ' t become " addicted " have you , Cole ?
To that " dying " world .
No , sir !
I just want to do my part .
To get us back on top . in charge of the planet .
And I have the experience , I know who the people are .
He really is the most qualified .
But all that " behavior .
You said we weren ' t " real " Cole .
Well , sir , I don ' t think the human mind was built to exist in two different .
whatever you call it " dimensions .
It ' s stressful , you said it yourselves , it gets you confused .
You don ' t know what ' s real and what ' s not .
But you know what ' s real now ?
Yes , sir .
The Scientists start to confer openly among themselves .
He ' d have to bone up , catch up to our research , the latest clues .
He ' s proved to be a quick study .
The Astrophysicist fixes Cole with a sharp , penetrating look .
You can ' t trick us , you know .
It wouldn ' t work .
And why would you want to ?
It ' ll be dangerously close to the end .
I understand .
There ' d be no point .
We ' re going to think about it , Cole .
Among ourselves .
We ' ll get back to you .
Standing in front of a wall of glass in his office , overlooking a hi - tech lab below where Workers in white " space suits " work methodically ,
Dr . Mason speaks angrily into a phone .
His male Assistant , whose features we don ' t see , stops writing a formula on a blackboard and listens .
You have reason to believe that my son may be planning to do what !
Railly , trying to stay calm , is talking to Dr . Mason on the phone .
Please , I know it sounds insane
but . Dr . Mason on the phone .
I ' m afraid this doesn ' t seem very professional to me , in fact it ' s distressingly unprofessional for some - one who treated my son briefly ( if indeed you actually are who you say you are ) to take a sudden unsolicited interest in his mental health six years later , and to telephone a parent to express opinions that would be inappropriate .
I don ' t know anything about " Monkey armies , Doctor . Nothing whatsoever .
If my son ever was involved in .
It would be doubly inappropriate to discuss matters of security with you , Dr . Railly , but if it will put you at ease , neither my son nor any other unauthorized person has access to any potentially dangerous organisms in this laboratory .
Thank you for your concern .
Dr .
Mason hangs up angrily and glares .
Dr . " Kathryn " Railly ?
The psychiatrist who was kidnapped by that man who broke into my house .
She seems to have been suddenly struck by the most preposterous notion about Jeffrey .
I attended a lecture once . Apocalyptic visions .
We see Dr . Mason ' s Assistant now .
It ' s Dr . Peters , the red - haired man who insisted to Dr . Railly you didn ' t have to be insane to think the world was coming to an end .
Has she succumbed to her own theoretical " disease ?
But Dr . Mason is lost in thought , not listening .
Given the nature of our work , we can ' t ever be careful enough .
I think we should review our security procedures , perhaps upgrade them .
Cole is facing the Botanist who ' s using a pointer to indicate various fading photos and newspaper clippings tacked on the wall .
Let ' s consider again our current information - if the symptoms were first detected in Philadelphia on June 28 , 1995 , that makes us know that ?
It was released in Philadelphia , probably on June 14 , 1995 .
And it appeared sequentially after that in ?
With a quick glance at the panel of Scientists staring at him from behind the long table , Cole replies like a good pupil .
San Francisco , New Orleans , Rio de Janeiro , Rome , Kinshasa , Karachi , Bangkok , then Peking .
Meaning ?
That the virus was taken from Philadelphia to San Francisco , then to New Orleans , Rio de Janeiro , Rome , Kinshasa , Karachi , Bangkok , then Peking .
And your only goal is ?
To find out where the virus is so a qualified scientist can travel back into the past and study the original virus .
So that ?
Uh , so that a vaccine can be developed that will , uh , allow mankind to reclaim the surface of the earth .
Cole glances nervously at the suspicious Scientists as the Botanist switches on a slide projector and projects . a magazine photo of wall graffiti :
" Attention !
Police Are This is from a magazine printed in late September , 1995 .
The writer speculated that this graffiti might be related to the epidemic that by that time had already killed thirty million people world - wide and was getting worse .
He says , certain people , unnamed , were questioned , but what came of that is not known .
But it is a clue you should pursue .
Cole stares at the picture .
Loud Banging !
The storefront window , completely covered with posters , quivers violently .
Images of Monkeys covered with electrodes , Baby Seals being viciously clubbed , Dogs jammed into tiny cages quiver as somebody beats on the window .
It ' s Railly .
Jeffrey , Ben , Teddy , and two of Jeffrey ' S youthful cohorts , Sandy and Kweskin , wait motionless beside a heap of cardboard cartons as Fale peeks out the front window through a slit between posters .
It ' s the kidnap woman - the one who was with the guy who tied us up .
What ' s she doing ?
She ' s drawing attention to us , that ' s what she ' s doing .
.
I don ' t know what you ' re up to this time , Mason , but you ' re gonna get us in deep shit !
Whine , whine , whine .
What about walkie talkies ?
We used to have walkie talkies .
From littered doorways , Derelicts sneak peeks at Railly as she , seemingly mad , shakes the doorknob , then hammers on the door .
Secret experiments !
Railly whirls , sees Louie , the raspy - voiced toothless derelict .
That ' s what they do - secret weird stuff !
You !
I know you !
But Louie is studying the pictures of the tortured animals now .
Not just on them .
Do ' em on people , too - down at the shelters .
Feed ' em chemicals ' n take pictures of ' em .
Have you seen James Cole ?
The man ?
They ' re watchin ' you .
Takin ' pictures .
Railly follows his look .
Angle On An Old Chevy , parked across the street , the Plainclothes Cop slouched at the wheel , pretending to read a newspaper .
The police .
I know .
Listen , I need to talk to James , but he has to be careful how he contacts me .
He mustn ' t get caught .
Do you understand me ?
Uh , yeah , sure .
Uh . who ' s James ?
He was with me , he spoke to you .
Several weeks ago .
He said you were from the future . watching him .
Louis gives her a look that says , " I ' m outta here "
But just then , Railly spots two Teznage Punks surreptitiously " tagging " their way along the street with cans of spray paint .
Railly stares at the Punks .
Fale watches Jeffrey go over a check list while Kweskin , Sandy , and Teddy organize materials , and Ben peeks out the small opening between posters at the front window .
You get the bolt cutters ?
One dozen .
They ' re in the van .
One dozen bolt cutters !
Whadda you gonna do with one dozen bolt cutters ?
You really want to know ?
No ! Absolutely not .
Don ' t tell me anything .
Hey !
Do you know what she ' s doing ?
Everybody freezes , looking toward 3en , who ' s peeking outside .
Then , except for Jeffrey , they all crowd around Ben to get a look .
Pov Through Slit : a glimpse of Railly , spray painting the front of the store !
What ' s it say ?
I can ' t see it .
Your psychiatrist ?
Did you just say , " your psychiatrist ?
Ex - psychiatrist !
Now , what about flashlights ?
How many flashlights ?
That woman is . was . your . psychiatrist ?
And now she ' s spray - painting our building ?
Angle On Slack Plainclothes Cop , across the street in the Chevy , amazed , watching Railly spray painting .
He shakes his head wearily .
Anglz On Street Types , inching closer , watching Railly with amazement , too .
They include . an Irish Drunk , white haired , red - faced , bloated . a Native American with tormented eyes and a mangled ear . an African American with one eye . the Teenaged Punks .
a White Man , shabbily dressed , joining the knot of Onlookers , reacting at the sight of Railly .
It ' s Cole !
He pushes toward her .
Kathryn !
Railly stops spraying , whips around at the sound of his Voice .
James !
With a quick glance toward the Plainclothes Cop , Railly takes urgent charge of the situation .
James !
That ' s a policeman .
Pretend you don ' t know me .
If he sees you .
No , I want to turn myself in .
Where is he ?
Don ' t worry - it ' s all okay now .
I ' m not crazy any more !
I mean , I am crazy , mentally divergent , actually , but I know it now
and I want you to help me .
I want to get well .
Angle on Railly , desperately pulling Cole ' S hands off his head as she tries to block the Cop ' S view of Cole .
James - put your hands down and listen to me .
Things have changed !
Angle On The Plainclothes Cop , checking the mug shot of Cole on his clipboard , then reaching for his radio mike .
Angle On Railly , reacting to the Cop speaking into his mike : she tosses the spray paint can aside , grabs Cole and tries to pull him along . but Cole isn ' t moving .
He ' s staring at the front of the Faa Store with disbelief !
James , come on !
We have to get out of here !
Cole looks from the wall to the can rolling on the sidewalk , then back to the wall where Railly has sprayed the huge words .
It ' s the graffiti Cole saw in the future , in the picture !
I ' ve seen that . before .
But Railly ' S total attention is on their dilemma .
James , trust me .
We ' re in terrible trouble .
We have to run .
Very confused , Cole lets her drag him along the sidewalk , past Onlookers .
She looks crazier than he does .
Angle On The Chevy , making a sudden , urgent u - turn , almost colliding with a passing car .
Brakes Squeal and a Horn Blares .
Angle On Ben , peeking out , reacting to the drama .
Wow , a guy in a Chevy is chasing her and some other guy I can ' t see .
Hey , no problem , it ' s probably just another kidnapping featuring Jeffrey ' s shrink , pardon me , make that ex - shrink .
This is your leader , a certifiable lunatic who told his former psychiatrist all his plans for God knows what whacko irresponsible schemes , and now who knows what she ' s painted out there on our wall ?
You think I told her about the Army of the 12 Monkeys ?
Impossible !
Know why , you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous " pretend - friend - to - animals !
I ' ll tell you why : because when I had anything to do with her six years ago , there was no such thing - I hadn ' t even thought of it yet !
Then how come she knows what ' s going on ?
Jeffrey abruptly switches from rage to good humor , adopting a supercilious smile and a patronizing tone .
Here ' s my theory on that .
While I was institutionalized , my brain was studied exhaustively in the guise of mental health .
I was interrogated , x - raped , studied thoroughly .
Then , everything about me was entered into a computer where they created a model of my mind .
They all stare , mesmerized , at the strutting Jeffrey .
Is he serious ?
Is he crazy ?
Doesn ' t matter - he ' s charismatic .
Then , using the computer model , they generated every thought I could possibly have in the next , say ten years , which they then filtered through a probability matrix to determine everything I was going to do in that period .
So you see , she knew I was going to lead the Army of the Twelve Monkeys into the pages of history before it ever even occurred to me .
She knows everything I ' m ever going to do before I know it myself .
How about that ?
Jeffrey smiles smugly into Fale ' S flabbergasted face .
Now I have to get going - do my part .
You guys check all this stuff out and load up the van .
Make sure you have everything .
I ' m outta here .
Jeffrey exits .
The others stare at the door .
He ' s seriously crazy - you know that .
An overflowing dumpster squats near the mouth of an alley .
The unmarked Chevy crawls slowly past the alley , the Plainclothes Cop ' S eyes searching everywhere .
Trash stirs in the dumpster and Railly ' S eyes peer up out of the torn cardboard boxes , rotting food , and styrofoam litter .
Her Pov : the Police Car passes from view .
Angle On Railly , emerging from the refuse , hissing .
James !
Come on .
A confused Cole emerges from the opposite end of the dumpster , bits of lettuce in his hair .
I don ' t understand what we ' re doing .
We ' re avoiding the police until I can . talk to you .
You mean , treat me ?
Cure me ?
Kathryn , those words on the wall - I ' ve seen them before .
I . I . dreamed them .
But she ' s not listening .
She ' s peeking out the alley entrance .
Railly ' S Pov : across the street is a run - down skid row hotel , The Desk Clerk , an old alkie who hates trouble but finds it often , stares across the counter suspiciously at Railly and Cole .
Twenty five bucks an hour .
An hour !
You want quarter hours , go someplace else .
Here ' s ninety eight .
For the night .
Deal ?
The Desk Clerk squints warily at this turn of events .
Then , he turns , gets a key , turns back and hands it to her .
Forty four .
Fourth floor , turn right .
Elevator ' s busted .
Railly turns , Cole follows , and they walk quickly to the stairs passing the stares of gloomy Residents sitting on torn sofas chairs in front of an old Tv with hideous color .
Angle On The Desk Clerk , watching Railly and Cole climb stairs .
As they disappear from view , he picks up the phone , punches a number , speaks into the phone .
Tommy ?
This is Charlie at the Globe .
You know if Wallace has a new girl ?
Sort of a rookie type ?
Blonde ? Cole sits on the lumpy bed in the dingy room , watching Railly pace back and forth like a mad woman .
Okay . you were standing there looking at the moon .
you were eating grass . then what ?
I thought I was in . prison again .
Just like that ?
You were in prison ?
No , not really . It ' s .
it ' s in my mind .
Like you said .
You disappeared !
One minute you were there , the next minute you were gone .
Did you run through the woods ?
I don ' t know - I don ' t remember .
The boy in the well .
How did you know that was just a hoax ?
It was ?
I didn ' t . know .
James , you said he was hiding in the barn .
I think I saw a Tv show like that when I was a kid .
Where a boy . Cole looks at her .
She ' s really upset .
Well , maybe that kid saw the same Tv show and copied it .
Listen , you were right , it ' s all in my head .
I ' m mentally ill , I imagine all that stuff .
I know they ' re not real , I can trick them , make them do what I want .
I just worked on them in my head and I got back here .
I can get better .
I can stay here .
Railly pulls a photo from her purse , shows it to Cole .
It ' s the uncropped picture from her book , the photo of Jose in Wwi with a fuzzy image of Cole on the edge of the frame .
What does this mean to you ?
.
I had a dream about . something like that .
You had a bullet from World War One in your leg , James !
How did it get there ?
You said I had delusions - that I created a world - you said you could explain everything .
Well , I can ' t . .
I mean . I ' m trying to .
I can ' t believe that everything we do or say has already happened , that we can ' t change what ' s going to happen , that I ' m one of the three billion people who are going to die . soon .
Cole stands , moves close to her .
I want to be here .
In this time .
With you .
I want to become . become a whole person .
I want this to be the present .
I want the future to be unknown .
James . do you remember . six years ago . you had a phone number !
You tried to call and . Wham !
The door flies open , kicked violently , the flimsy lock not holding .
A menacing figure stands in the doorway .
Wallace .
A wiry biker - type with jail house tattoos and mean eyes .
Cole and Railly are too stunned to say anything as Wallace looks them over coldly , insolently , then advances on Railly .
This is my territory , bitch !
Is this real - or is this one of my delusions ?
This is definitely real .
Excuse me , I think we have a little misunderstanding here .
Wallace smashes Railly in the face .
She flies back against the wall and onto the floor as Wallace spins around to Cole who is stepping toward him , but Wallace is now holding a knife .
What ' re you - some kind of tough guy ?
You wanna be a hero ?
You gonna try and mess with me ?
Come on .
A beat .
Cole puts his hands up placatingly as he backs around Wallace and moves to Railly , whose eye is already swelling .
Now that ' s a smart boy .
But you , honey , you think you can go ' round me and peddle your fancy ass in this part of town , you bet your life we got what I would call a major goddamn misunderstanding .
Railly reaches a hand up to Cole for assistance , but , he grabs her purse instead , swings it around , Smashes Wallace in the face with it , then grabs the pimp ' s arm and Snaps it like it was a twig !
The knife clatters to the floor as Wallace yelps in pain and Cole slams him to the floor , straddles his chest , retrieves the near - by knife , and presses it sharply against Wallace ' S neck .
Cole hesitates .
You . heard . her .
Don ' t do it , man .
Put him in the closet , .
But get his money first .
You want me to rob him ?
I . I .
We need cash , James .
A shadow .
Railly turns toward the door and glimpses a Face disappearing , then hears Shouts from the hallway .
They ' re killing him !
Call the cops .
Being very careful not to move his neck , Wallace reaches into his pocket and produces a thick roll of bills , which Railly grabs .
You two are crazy .
I got friends .
You put me in a closet , they ' re gonna be really pissed .
Cole moves off Wallace and , keeping the knife close , yanks him to .
Her Pov :
A fire escape leads down into an alley .
Railly turns just in time to see Cole shove Wallace into the bathroom , follow him in , slam the door behind them , and Lock it .
James , no !
James , what are you doing ?
Wallace cowers back against the shower stall .
I have friends , man - if you cut me . Wallace breaks off , bug - eyed , reacting to something we don ' t see !
What .
the . fuck . are you doing ?
Railly is pounding on the bathroom door now as , suddenly , it opens and Cole steps out , the knife in his right hand , dripping with blood .
Oh , my God , James .
Did you kill him ?
Cole shakes his head " no " as blood oozes from his mouth .
Just . just in case .
In case I ' m not crazy .
That ' s how they find us .
By our teeth .
I don ' t want them to find me .
Ever .
I don ' t want to go back .
Railly ' s astonishment turns to emotion as it dawns on her the choice he ' s made .
Given up the future ( if it exists , and it ' s looking like it does !
Risking his life to be with her !
For this brief time !
She ' s overwhelmed , lips trembling , tears welling in her eyes .
But just then , the Sounds of Shouts and feet Thundering up the stairs snap her back to reality .
Cops ' boots Thunder up the stairwell .
In between nervous glances toward the door , Railly supervises as Cole obediently blocks the bathroom door with the bureau .
Push it tight !
Police Officers , led by the Plainclothes Cop , make a cautious entrance onto the 4th floor , guns drawn .
Seedy Hotel Residents point to Room 44 , then cower back into their doorways .
Cole and Railly clatter down the fire - escape , Cole in the lead .
They come to the end of the metal stairway .
It ' s a long distance to the ground .
Cole jumps down , turns , reaches up to her .
She lets herself down to him .
Their eyes meet .
He holds her in his arms for a moment .
Then , reluctantly , he puts her down .
They start running down the alley .
The Plainclothes Cop has his pistol out , his back to the wall alongside the open doorway to Room 44 .
The Uniformed Officers are backing him up , weapons drawn .
No response .
The Plainclothes Cop charges into the room in a crouch , pistol extended in both hands .
He pans the gun around the empty room .
His Pov : the open window . the blood on the floor .
A city bus disgorges a stream of Passengers at a stop in the tone downtown shopping district .
Among them , Railly looks furtively left and right , Cole on her heels .
She ' s hidden her bruised eye behind sun glasses ; he ' s holding a bloody handkerchief to his mouth .
As he steps to the sidewalk , Cole is overwhelmed by the bustling city , the tall downtown buildings .
His eyes go up .
Cole ' S Pov : a building , towering toward the sky .
A building with a ledge .
The same ledge the lion prowled in the future !
Angle On Cole , shaken , as Railly ushers him into the recessed entrance to a store .
Wait here .
I ' m going to try that phone number .
Let ' s hope it ' s nothing !
Dazed by his experience and the flow of Shoppers , Cole watches her hurry to a pay phone twenty yards away , his view of her made intermittent by Pedestrians streaming past him , their Faces looming frighteningly close .
A Businessman jostles Cole , forcing him back against the display window .
Turning , he faces the angry jaws of a Bear only inches away Recovering from a jolt of terror , Cole realizes the Bear is a life - size toy in the display window .
Relieved , he looks back at Railly .
Cole ' S Pov : Railly , well out of earshot , speaking earnestly into the phone .
Angle On Cole , startled , as a Businessman , mistaking him for a panhandler , shoves a dollar into his hand .
Confused , Cole stares at the dollar , then turns to say something to the retreating Businessman , but just then he sees Railly rushing toward him , eyes sparkling with happiness , Laughing , ebullient .
James !
James !
It ' s okay .
We ' re insane !
We ' re crazy !
Cole doesn ' t know how to respond , but a Passerby gives them a look .
It ' s a Carpet Cleaning Company .
A Carpet Cleaning Company ?
No superiors !
No scientists .
No people from the future .
It ' s just a Carpet Cleaning Company .
They have voice mail - you leave a message telling them when you want your carpet cleaned .
You . you left them a message ?
I couldn ' t resist .
I was so relieved .
Wait ' ll they hear this nutty woman telling them . they better watch out for the Army of the Twelve Monkeys .
Looking at her laughing face , Cole is struck with horror as he realizes the truth !
He starts to recite .
" The Army of the Twelve Monkeys - they ' re the ones who are going to do it .
I can ' t do anything more .
The police are watching me .
Now she ' s stunned .
She glances back and sees the phone booth twenty yards away .
You . you couldn ' t have heard me .
They got your message , Kathryn .
They played it for me .
It was a bad recording . distorted .
I didn ' t recognize your voice .
Railly ' S eyes fill with horror as she grasps the meaning .
Angle On A Uniformed Cop , staring out the window of a Police Cruiser as it inches along in the bumper to bumper traffic .
Noticing something , he reaches for his radio .
Angle On Railly , spotting the Cruiser , grabbing Cole , pulling him into the Crowd .
Come on .
Railly , whose sun glasses don ' t really hide her bruised eye , adds a man ' s Hawaiian shirt to the pile of other men ' s things heaped on a counter in front of a very suspicious Clerk .
And this .
Anything else ?
But Cole ' S not here .
He ' s a short distance away . staring .
Cole ' S Pov : aisle after aisle of eager shoppers and a bounty of brand new consumer goods .
Angle On Cole , remembering another department store , dark and full of moldering merchandise .
Angle On Railly , turning again to the Clerk .
I guess that ' s it .
Shall I put this on your account , Ma ' am ?
No - I ' ll pay cash .
The Clerk stares at the huge roll of bills !
What floor are the wigs on , please ?
Surrounded by stripped and abandoned vehicles , the Van , with a Pest Control logo on its side , is parked on a trash - littered street beside the massive pillars of a towering freeway .
The Van is packed with Six Activists , Sandy and Kweskin among them , all wearing black .
Some of them have climbing gear , tool belts , all sorts of paraphernalia .
Kweskin is telling his story .
So then he goes into this incredible riff about how his shrink , like , replicated his brain while he was in the nut house .
Turned it into a computer .
And Fale believed it ?
Oh , you know Fale !
He ' s like , " If you guys get nailed - and I ' m sure you will - I never saw you before in nay life .
Laughter from all of them .
Then , there ' s a sharp , rhythmic series of Raps on the side door , a signal .
Pope quickly slides the door open .
It ' s Jeffrey . grinning .
Three other activists , Goines , Ichioka , and Bruhns , stagger out of the darkness behind Jeffrey , lugging a huge , squirming Garbage Bag .
The van occupants react with murmurs of " Awwwwwright " and " Far out , then they help maneuver the writhing bag into the van .
Then , Jeffrey and the other three scramble in , too .
Let ' s do it !
The Pest Control Van lumbers up a ramp and onto the freeway .
The Garbage Bag squirms and grunts as Jeffrey holds a map under a flashlight and goes over " the plan " with the other Activists .
Okay , that ' s Stage One .
In Stage Two , Monkey Four is over here .
A loud Groan from the bag distracts the others .
What ' s the harm in opening the bag ?
His eyes are taped .
Yeah , it ' s cruel leaving him like that .
Ah , but cruelty is his specialty .
So why should we be like him ?
Shrugging cheerfully , Jeffrey tears open the garbage bag revealing Dr . Mason , trussed up , duct tape covering his eyes and mouth .
Want the full effect ?
Grinning wickedly , Jeffrey rips the tape from his father ' s mouth .
Jeffrey ?
I know it ' s you , Jeffrey .
I recognize your voice .
Jeffrey puts his finger to his lips , silencing everyone .
Jeffrey ?
.
Very well .
You ' re out of your mind , Jeffrey .
I know all about your insane plan .
That woman - your psychiatrist - she told me .
Jeffrey raises his eyebrows .
This he hadn ' t expected .
I didn ' t believe her - it seemed too crazy even for you .
But , just in case , I took steps to make sure you couldn ' t do it .
I took myself out of the loop !
I don ' t have the code any more .
I don ' t have access to the virus .
So , go ahead - torture me , but you can ' t extract anything of use to yourself .
The Activists are all exchanging puzzled looks .
What . virus ?
She knew about it , Jeffrey .
She knew you were going to try this .
What virus are we talking about , Dad ?
You ' re insane , Jeffrey .
You " develop " viruses and you ' re calling me insane ?
Typical .
What does this virus attack ?
Don ' t tell me , you sick fuck , it doesn ' t matter .
Have I ever " developed " a virus ?
Do I put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli ?
Do I inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements ?
Wow !
And I ' m crazy !
Please tell me , Jeffrey , what exactly are you going to do ?
I don ' t have to tell you I ' m afraid .
Spooky Bernard Herrman Music , giant redwoods looming skyward .
It ' s Daytime in Muir Woods .
Scotty And Madeline .
redwood tree .
We ' re watching Hitchcock ' s Vertigo .
Here ' s a cross section of one of the old trees that ' s been cut down .
They look at the lines of the tree marked with cards that say , " 1066 - Battle Of Hastings , and " 1930 Tree Cut Down .
Angle On The Theater Audience , empty seats dimly visible in the flickering light , a few shadowy Moviegoers scattered here and there .
Angle On The Screen , Madeline pointing , saying with profound melancholy .
Somewhere in here I was born .
And here - I die .
There ' s only a moment for you .
You don ' t notice .
Angle On The Audience , a shadowy Couple near the back of the theater .
We Can ' T Really See Them , but we recognize their Voices .
Here , let me help you .
The theater is briefly illuminated by a very bright scene on the screen , revealing enough of Cole and Railly for us to see she ' s doing something to his upper lip while he tries to watch the movie .
I think I ' ve seen this movie before .
When I was a kid .
It was on Tv .
Shh - don ' t talk .
Hold still .
I have seen it , but I don ' t remember this part .
Funny , it ' s like what ' s happening to us , like the past .
The movie never changes - it can ' t change - but everytime you see it , it seems to be different because you ' re different - you notice different things .
If we can ' t change anything . because it ' s already happened , then we ought to at least smell the flowers .
Flowers !
What flowers ?
From the darkness , a Movie Patron makes a Sssshhhhh should .
It ' s an expression .
Here .
She ' s pulling something from a shopping bag at her feet , placing it on Cole ' S head , adjusting it .
Why are we doing this ?
So we can stick our heads out the window and feel the wind and listen to the music .
So we can appreciate what we have while we have it .
Forgive me , psychiatrists don ' t cry .
There are tears in her eyes .
They discomfit Cole .
But maybe I ' m wrong .
Maybe you ' re wrong .
Maybe we ' re both crazy .
In a few weeks , it will have started or it won ' t .
If there are still baseball games and traffic jams , armed robberies and boring Tv shows - we ' ll be so happy , we ' ll be glad to turn ourselves in to the police .
Where can we hide for a few weeks ?
Angle On The Screen , where Scotty and Madeline are in the foreground , the Ocean behind them .
You said you ' d never seen the ocean .
Close On A Gorilla , by moonlight , angry , a true nightmare vision .
Urgent Whispers off screen , Rustling Sounds .
Then , Metal On Metal .
Only now are we aware that the Gorilla is in an outdoor zoo pen with phony rocks .
Stalking back and forth .
Huge .
Upset .
Clank .
Clank .
Metal On Metal .
Grunts of effort , then , Dr . Mason ' S Voice , plaintive , frightened .
What are you doing to me ?
Where are we ? Jeffrey , please .
For God ' s sake , put the tape back on his mouth !
The Gorilla bellows angrily , beating his chest .
Forget the tape .
The monkey ' s louder than he is .
You gonna tape the monkey ' s mouth ?
Under the full moon , Panthers pace back and forth , back and forth , uttering ominous guttural Snarls .
The King Of Beasts gives a deep , fierce Roar .
From the darkness , unseen Elephants Trumpet their response .
A Pandemonium of Wings Rustling , the sharp metallic Clinking of metal on metal , the Mutter of Human Voices , then a cacophonous Crescendo of frenzied Screeching as Parrots , Cockatoos and other Exotic Birds careen madly in their cages .
Close On Cole , dozing fitfully , as the Sounds of Screaming Birds continue .
Suddenly , he comes awake with a start . sees the movie filling his field of vision .
His Pov : the Movie Screen .
Tippi Hedrin , overwhelmed by screeching Birds in an attic in Hitchcock ' s The Birds .
Angle On Cole , orienting himself , looking around .
Empty seats on both sides of him .
He ' s alone .
He panics .
Kathryn !
A lobby poster boasts " Classics 24 Hours A Day " and " Hitchcock Festival .
Panning Off the poster , passing a Snoring Usher , dead to the world in an old velvet chair , We Discover a Brunette in a tight dress , just hanging up the lobby pay phone .
Turning , she reveals heavy make - up , gaudy costume jewelry , and sun glasses .
She ' s the Brunette in Cole ' S Dream !
Crossing the lobby toward the auditorium , it ' s a pleasure to watch her nice body undulate in the tight dress .
Just then , the auditorium doors burst open and a Blonde Man in a Hawaiian shirt appears , the man from Cole ' S Dream , except this man ' s moustache is fixed firmly on his upper lip .
The Blonde Man stops , stunned at the sight of the Brunette .
We ' re booked on a 9 : 30 flight to Key West .
The Brunette is Railly , no longer the frazzled professional , revealed now by her disguise as a sexy babe .
The Blonde Man is Cole !
He ' s confused .
You were in my dream just now .
I didn ' t recognize you .
Well , you look pretty different , too .
I mean in my dream - I didn ' t realize it was you .
Then . I woke up and I .
I thought you were gone .
I remember you . like this .
I feel I ' ve known you before .
I feel I ' ve always known you .
Their eyes lock .
Suddenly , she backs up , gently maneuvering him with her , past the sleeping Usher , to and through an unlocked , unmarked door , then closing it behind them .
Railly and Cole are in a dimly lit cluttered storage room .
She kisses him hungrily amid the brooms , plastic trash barrels , other janitorial items .
Cole responds to her passion as they move deeper into the room , its walls covered with old movie posters .
Tearing at each other ' s clothes , they collapse on a rolled theater curtain among stacks of ancient theater seats .
The red rim of the rising sun is just becoming visible beyond the silhouetted roofs of an upper middle - class suburban neighborhood .
The early light is so vague that when a huge Siberian Tiger pads across a neatly - trimmed lawn , he ' s more a shadowy vision than reality .
Did we really see him at all ?
The rising sun flares behind the towering silhouette of an unfinished building , deserted in the early morning light .
High up , a Monkey his head around a girder .
Four stories below , other Monkeys are climbing .
Deserted in the first light of dawn , the stores face each other across a broad promenade with blank staring windows .
Nothing happens .
For a long moment .
Then , an African Bull Elephant appears , turning the corner , lumbering toward us along the promenade , raising his trunk to Trumpet triumphantly to the other Elephants trotting into view behind him .
A fiftyish Woman Cabbie with white hair and a Southern twang is at the wheel of the cab .
What time ' s your flight , friends ?
In the back seat , Cole , in the blonde wig and moustache , looks to his companion , the sexy babe in sun glasses and heavy make - up , Railly .
Nine thirty .
Might be tight .
Tight ?
My watch says 7 : 30 .
On your normal mornin , okay , plenty a time , but today , gotta take into account your Army - of - the - Twelve - Monkeys factor .
What ?
What did you say ?
Twelve Monkeys , honey .
Guess you folks didn ' t turn on your radio this morning .
Cole and Railly exchange a quick look .
Bunch a weirdoes let all the animals outta the zoo last night .
Then they locked up this big shot scientist in one of the cages .
Scientist ' s own kid was one a the ones did it !
Railly and Cole stare at the cabbie , stunned .
Now they got animals all over the place .
Buncha zebras shut down the thruway ' bout an hour ago and some kinda thing called an " e - mu " it ' s got traffic blocked for miles over on 22 .
Flabbergasted , Railly ' S eyes suddenly fill with hope .
That ' s what they were up to !
Freeing animals !
On the walls - they meant the animals when they said , " We did it .
You can hear it on the radio all the stations .
As the Woman Caebie switches on the Radio , Ra : Lly points and Cole follows her look .
Cole ' S Pov : two Cheetahs , sleek and magnificent against the cityscape , streaking past the cab at ninety mph !
In the meantime , numerous animal rights activists have joined the chorus condemning what they ' re calling the " loose canon " activities of Jeffrey Mason and his Army of the Twelve Monkeys .
Can these fools seriously believe that releasing a captive animal into an urban environment is being compassionate to the animal ?
It ' s mindlessly cruel , almost as indefensible as holding the animal in captivity in the first place .
Railly and Cole are watching Flamingos cross the sky against a backdrop of skyscrapers in silhouette .
Maybe it ' s going to be okay .
Closy On copies of the mug shot of Cole and a photo of Railly while the airport P . A . System Drones in the b . g . Reveal a Detective , giving the flyers to the uniformed Supervisor at one end of the ticket counter .
Tell your people if they spot either one of them , not to try and apprehend then .
They should notify us and . Angle On Railly And Cole , thirty yards away , entering the terminal .
- Flight 531 for Chicago is now ready for boarding at Gate Seventeen .
Angle On Cole , reacting to the P . A , stopping , seeing the bustling airport lobby .
I know this place !
.
This is my dream .
Airports all look the same .
Maybe it ' s . James !
Your moustache !
It ' s slipping .
But Cole isn ' t listening .
He ' s looking around , mesmerized .
It ' s not just my dream .
I was actually here !
I remember now .
My parents brought me to meet my uncle .
About a week or two before . before . before everybody started dying .
Railly glances around nervously .
Railly ' S Pov : two Uniformed Policemen , strolling through the lobby , their eyes scanning the faces of Travelers .
Angle On Railly , pulling a small tube from her purse .
They may be looking for us , James .
Use this .
You can fix it in the Men ' s Room .
I was here . as a kid .
I think you were here , too .
But you . looked just like you look now .
James , if we ' re identified , they ' re going to send us someplace . but not to Key West !
Right !
You ' re right .
I have to fix this .
I ' ll get the tickets and meet you . in the Gift Shop .
Cole follows her look , nods , then heads for the Men ' s Room as Railly , in sun glasses , gaudy outfit , high heels , starts clip clopping toward the ticket counter , her ass attracting admiring glances .
Business Travelers huddle over pay phones , talking earnestly , as Cole walks past on his way to the Men ' s Room .
Seeing an unoccupied phone , Cole hesitates , considers it .
Coming to a decision , he reaches into his pocket , pulls out some change .
Close On the flyer of Cole and Railly taped under the counter , hidden from the customers , but in clear view of the Ticket Agent who has just finished serving a Portly Gentleman .
The Gentleman walks away .
Angle On Railly , stepping up to the counter , smiling , looking nothing like the Railly on the flyer .
Judy Simmons .
I have reservations for Key West .
Cole is speaking into the phone very low , very private , very intense .
Listen , I don ' t know whether you ' re there or not .
Maybe you just clean carpets .
If you do , you ' re lucky - you ' re gonna live a long , happy life .
But if you other guys exist and you ' re picking this up - forget about the Army of The Twelve Monkeys - they didn ' t do it .
It was a mistake ' Someone else did it .
The Army of The Twelve Monkeys are just dumb kids playing revolutionaries .
It was someone else !
Cole looks around nervously , catches a Businessman at the next phone looking away quickly .
Cole touches his loose moustache as he averts his face and speaks into the phone in an urgent whisper .
I ' ve done my job .
I did what you wanted .
Good luck .
I ' m not coming back !
Cole hangs up the phone , looks around , catches a few stares .
Averting his face , he heads for the Men ' s Room .
The Ticket Agent is counting out a stack of bills .
Don ' t see a lot of this . cash .
It ' s . a long story .
They ' ll begin boarding in about twenty minutes .
Have a nice flight , Mrs . Simmons .
Turning to go , Railly fumbles the tickets while trying to put them in her purse and they flutter to the floor .
As she kneels to retrieve them , We See the long line of waiting Travelers from the waist down .
We See a familiar Chicago Bulls Sports Bag resting on the floor beside sneakers and gaudy baggy pants .
we ' ve seen this outfit before . in Cole ' S dream . on Mr .
Ponytail !
The P . A . Drones as Ccle , head down , lingers at a sink , washing and rewashing his hands while another Traveler finishes drying his hands , gives Cole a quizzical look , then leaves .
Quickly , Cole glances around , checks the seemingly empty Men ' s Room , then takes the tube of adhesive from his pocket , puts some goop under the loose edge of his moustache and presses it firmly against his face as he leans close to the mirror .
Got yourself a prob , Bob ? Cole whirls , looks for the source of the Voice .
Nothing !
Until he spots shoes peeking from dropped trousers indicating an occupied stall .
It must be him !
Leave me alone !
I made a report .
I didn ' t have to do that .
Point of fact - you don ' t belong here .
It ' s not permitted to let you stay .
A toilet Flushes in the " occupied " stall .
Cole ' S answer is loud and defiant .
This is the present .
This is not the past .
This is not the future .
This is right now !
A Plump Businessman emerges from the " occupied " stall , gives Cole a wary look and a wide berth as he heads for a sink .
I ' m staying here !
You got that ?
You can ' t stop me !
Anything you say , chief .
It ' s none of my business .
Cole looks dismayed .
This guy couldn ' t be " The Voice !
And there are no feet showing under the other stalls .
Did he imagine it ?
The Chicago Bulls bag !
It ' s on the counter in front of the Ticket Agent who ' s reviewing a stack of tickets in awe .
Woooo - eeee .
San Francisco , New Orleans , Rio de Janeiro , Rome , Kinshasa , Karachi , Bangkok , Peking !
That ' s some trip you ' re taking , sir , All in one week !
Business .
Have a good one , sir .
Cole emerges from the Men ' s Room , shaken , paranoid .
He glances around nervously .
Then , keeping his head down , he starts walking toward the Gift Shop .
Before he gets more than a few steps , someone suddenly grabs his shoulder from behind .
You gotta be crazy , man !
Cole whirls , finds himself facing a Puerto Rican youth in an L . A . Raiders jacket , a sideways baseball cap , and mirrored sun glasses .
Jo . Jose ?
Pulling out the tooth , man , that was nuts !
Here , take this .
Jose tries to slip Cole a 9mm pistol .
Astonished , Cole resists !
What ?
What for ? Are you crazy ?
Frustrated , Jose conceals the gun but keeps a grip on Cole ' S arm .
Me ? Are you kiddin ?
You ' re the one !
You were a hero , man .
They gave you a pardon !
And whadda you do ?
You come back and fuck with your teeth !
Wow !
How did you find me ?
The phone call , man .
The phone call .
The call I just made ?
Five minutes ago ?
Hey , five minutes ago , thirty years ago !
Yes , that phone call .
I been in training for this a couple a months now - ever since I got back from that . " weird " war we were in .
You remember that ?
Here , take it , man !
You could still be a hero if you ' d cooperate !
Railly takes a travel book on Key West from a rack , considers it , includes it with several magazines she ' s holding .
She doesn ' t notice Mr .
Ponytazl enter the Gift Shop behind her !
The P . A . System Drones flight info as Railly checks her watch and frowns .
It ' s getting late and where ' s Cole ?
She turns , heads for the cash register to make her purchases .
Mr . Ponytail , seen from behind , is at the cash register already .
He sets a newspaper on the counter and searches for change .
The paper features a banner headline .
" Animals Set Free " and a sub head .
" Prominent Scientist Found Locked In Gorilla Cage " over a photo of Dr . Mason being released from the cage and another photo of a Gorilla perched atop a parked car .
Stepping in line behind Mr .
Ponytail , Railly checks her watch again .
Then , Mr . Ponytail , having paid , turns to go and Railly looks up and sees his face .
though it is not visible to us .
Startled , Railly frowns .
Does she know this man ?
Mr .
Ponytail pauses for a moment , considering the babe in the shades , gaudy earrings , the tight skirt , and high heels .
Railly doesn ' t recognize the man , but we do !
He ' s
Dr . Mason ' S Assistant , Dr . Peters .
the man who attended Railly ' s lecture !
Smiling , Dr .
Peters steps around Railly and exits the Gift Shop .
Still puzzled , Railly puts her purchases on the counter and the Clerk starts ringing them up as a Delivery Man comes in and drops a bundle of newspapers at her feet .
Railly ' S Pov : the front page shows a photo of three frightened Giraffes in freeway gridlock under a headline proclaiming , " Terrorists Create Chaos .
Further down are two more photos . Dr . Mason in the gorilla cage and a file photo of Dr . Mason in his lab .
Close On The Shot Of Dr . Mason in his lab .
There ' s someone else in the picture .
It ' s a man wearing a lab coat and a Ponytail !
Angle On Railly , reacting , suddenly remembering !
Railly looks up from the book she ' s signing and sees Dr . Peters .
Isn ' t it obvious that " Chicken Little " represents the sane vision and that Homo Sapiens ' motto , " Let ' s go shopping "
is the cry of the true lunatic ?
Railly , stunned , stares in the direction Peters / Ponytail went .
Oh , my God !
- flight 764 for San Francisco is now ready for boarding at Gate 36 .
In the confusion of Travelers streaming in different directions , Cole hurries toward the Gift Shop while Jose struggles to keep up .
Coma on , Cole , don ' t be an asshole .
Look , I got orders , man !
You know what I ' m sposed to do if you don ' t go along ?
I ' m sposed to shoot the lady !
You got that ?
They said , " If Cole don ' t obey this time , Garcia , you gotta shoot his girlfriend .
Cole stops in his tracks , blown away , too stunned to speak .
I got no choice , man .
These are my orders .
Just take it , okay ?
Cole accepts the gun this time , resigned now .
They ' ve got him .
This part isn ' t about the virus , is it ?
Hey , man .
It ' s about obeying , about doing what you ' re told .
They gave you a pardon , man .
Whatdaya want ?
Who am I supposed to shoot ?
Just then , Railly rushes up to Cole , not even noticing Jose .
James !
Thank God !
I thought you ' d disappeared .
Listen , I think I know who it is !
I saw him !
It ' s Dr . Mason ' s assistant .
An apocalypse nut !
The next flight to San Francisco leaves from Gate 38 .
If he ' s there , it has to be him .
Jose , having heard this , steps back into the crowd as Railly grabs Cole and pulls him toward the Security Check Points .
I love you , Kathryn .
Remember that .
She doesn ' t hear him or see the look of doom in his eyes .
Maybe we can stop him .
Maybe we can actually do something .
A young boy of nine passes through the magnetic arch grinning .
Young Cole !
Exactly as he appears in the dream !
He joins his Parents , who are only visible from their chests down , and they continue along the concourse .
We Linger and Discover two Detectives watching Travelers as they pass through the magnetic arch and retrieve their bags from the X - ray machine , comparing their faces to photos of Cole and Railly .
Angle On A Security Officer , watching the x - ray monitor .
Angle On The Monitor , showing the X - Ray Image of a sports bag moving along the conveyer belt .
The bag contains some strange objects .
Angle On The Security Officer , reacting .
Excuse me , sir .
Would you mind letting me have a look at the contents of your bag ?
Angle On Dr .
Peters , coming through the magnetic arch , reacting .
Me ?
Oh , yes , of course .
My samples .
I have the appropriate papers .
Railly And Cole arrive at the very long suddenly stalled line of Travelers waiting to pass through security .
Oh , God , we don ' t have time for this .
Angle On The Security Check Point , where Dr .
Peters unpacks his Bulls bag , pulls out six metal cylinders along with a change of clothes and a Walkman .
Biological samples .
I have the paperwork right here .
Dr .
Peters produces a sheaf of official papers while the Security Officer examines one of the tubes , turning it over in his hands .
I ' m going to have to ask you to open this , sir .
Open it ?
Of course .
Dr .
Peters takes the metal cylinder and starts opening it .
There ' s a Sound of Voices Raised behind them .
Dr .
Peters pays no attention , but the Security Officer turns toward the Noise .
Security Officer ' S Pov : Railly , trying to explain something to a Angle On The Two Detectives , nearby , showing interest in the commotion .
Angle On Dr .
Peters , oblivious to the fuss , pulling a closed glass tube out of the metal cylinder .
Here !
You see ?
Biological !
Check the papers - it ' s all proper .
I have a permit .
It ' s empty !
Indeed , it looks like a sealed clear glass tube with nothing in it .
Well , yes , to be sure , it looks empty !
But I assure you , it ' s not .
Angle On Railly , at the end of the line , arguing with the Second Please listen to me - this is very urgent !
You ' ll have to get in line , ma ' am .
We ' re all in a hurry , lady .
What ' s so special about you ?
Angle On Dr . Peters , producing the glass tubes from the other metal cylinders as the Security Officer examines the papers .
You see !
Also invisible to the naked eye .
A beat .
Or .
Peters grins suddenly , opens one of the glass tubes , and waves it under the Security Officer ' S nose !
It doesn ' t even have an odor .
The Security Officer glances up , sees what Dr . Peters is doing , and smiles as he hands the papers back to the scientist .
That ' s not necessary , sir .
Here you go .
Thanks for your cooperation .
Have a good flight .
Hastily , Dr .
Peters snatches up all the tubes and cylinders and shoves them back into his gym bag .
Angle On Railly , raging as the Second Security Officer jabs her with his finger .
Who are you calling a " moron ?
Get your hands off her !
The Second Security Officer stiffens for trouble .
Angle On The Detectives , watching the fuss , ready to get involved .
Suddenly , the First Detective frowns .
First Detective9s Pov :
Cole ' S moustache is slipping .
Cole senses it , reaches up to touch it , catches the Detective ' S look .
For half a second their eyes meet , then Cole looks away .
Angle On Dr . Peters , hurrying away .
Dr .
Peters freezes , turns , ashen .
The Security Officer is retrieving a pair of jockey shorts from the floor beside the search table .
He waves them at Dr . Peters .
Dr .
Peters hurries back for his underpants .
Angle On Cole , trying to keep his head turned away as he confronts the Security Officer .
I said , get your hands off her .
She ' s not a criminal .
She ' s a doctor . a psychiatrist .
Railly looks alarmed at that .
Angle On The Detectives , coming this way .
The First Detective has the photos in his hand .
Angle Ow Dr . Peters , bagging his jockey shorts , then starting hastily down the windowed concourse toward the gates .
Angle On Razzly , suddenly spotting Dr . Peters !
Angle On Cole , following Railly ' S look , seeing Mr .
Ponytail , The Angle On Dr . Peters , frightened , glancing back , walking faster .
Angle On Detectives , reaching Railly and Cole .
Police Officers .
Would you step over here , please .
Angle On Cole , spotting something behind the Detectives !
Cole ' S Pov : Scarface , dressed like a " businessman !
He gives Cole a cold look .
A beat .
Cole lunges at the Second Detective , knocking him off balance , then sprints toward the magnetic arch and through it .
The Alarm goes off !
The First Security Officer tries to stop Cole , but Cole knocks him aside like a rag doll .
Angle On Dr .
Peters , fifty yards up the concourse , glancing back .
Angle On Cole , pulling his pistol .
Angle On The First Detective , raising his pistol at Cole .
Angle On Cole , gun in hand , sprinting along the concourse toward Dr .
Peters as frightened Travelers Scream and dive for cover .
Angle On Young Cole , standing at a concourse window , watching a plane land , flanked by his parents whose faces we don ' t see .
Young Cole who , hearing the commotion , turns just as Dr .
Peters hurries by .
Dr .
Peters bumps into Young Cole and reacts by pulling his Bulls bag close to his body and calling .
Angle On Young Cole , wide eyed , watching .
Young Cole ' S Pov : a Blonde Man .
dashing up the concourse , his moustache slipping over his lip , a pistol in his hand .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the First Detective aims , looking for a clear shot in the crowded passageway .
Young Cole ' S Pov : a Brunette in flashy clothes , gaudy earrings , high heels , and sun glasses Screams .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the First Detective , firing !
Crack !
Young Cole ' S Pov : the Blonde Man , shuddering , staggering , falling .
Angle On Young Cole , stunned , as his Parents try to shield him .
My God !
They shot that man !
Mesmerized , Young Cole watches the Brunette rush to the Blonde Man , kneel beside him , minister to his bloody wound .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the Blonde Man , fatalistically reaching up and tenderly touching the Brunette ' S cheek , touching her tears .
Angle On Young Cole , not able to hear their words , but he can see emotion as the Blonde Man tries to tell the sobbing Brunette something .
Young Cole ' S Pov : Paramedics , breaking the spell , pushing the Brunette aside as they crouch beside the Blonde Man .
Come along , son , this is no place for us .
Angle On Young Cole , as his Father ' S Arm drapes over his shoulder , steering him .
Young Cole turns to look back as he ' s led away .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the Paramedics , exchanging glances , shrugging helplessly .
It ' s too late .
The Blonde Man is dead .
Young Cole sees the Brunette , her face streaked with tears , suddenly turn and look around , scanning the crowd , searching for something .
Police Officers approach her , say something to her .
Even as she responds , her eyes continue to scan the concourse .
Angle On Young Cole , being hurried toward the lobby by his Parents .
He can ' t help sneaking another look back .
Young Cole ' S Pov : Police , handcuffing a distracted , unresisting Railly .
Even now , she continues to look around almost frantically .
Suddenly , her gaze falls on Young Cole and she reacts .
she ' s found what she ' s looking for !
Angle On Young Cole , reacting to the intensity of her look .
Angle On Railly , her eyes speaking to the boy across the crowded concourse .
Angle On Young Cole , overwhelmed by the look .
Hurry up , son .
With a last lingering look toward the mysterious Brunette , Young Cole turns away , tears welling in his eyes .
We Move In . Close .
Close . Closer . on his eyes .
We Want To Know What The Tear Means , Pretend it was just a bad dream , Jimmy .
Dr .
Peters closes the door to the overhead luggage rack containing his Chicago Bulls bag and takes his seat .
Next to him , a Fellow Traveler , unseen , says .
It ' s obscene , all the violence , all the lunacy .
Shootings even at airports now .
You might say . we ' re the next endangered species . human beings !
Close On Dr . Peters , smiling affably , turning to his neighbor .
I think you ' re right .
sir .
I think you ' ve hit the nail on the head .
Dr .
Peters ' Pov : the Fellow Traveler , a silver haired gentleman in a business suit , offering his hand congenially .
Dr .
Peters doesn ' t know who this man is , but we do .
It ' s the Astrophysicist !
Jones is my name .
I ' m in insurance .
As Young Cole ' S Parents usher Young Cole into their station wagon , the boy hesitates , looks back , watches a 747 climb into the sky .
