Production Draft June 27 , 1994 Close On A Face .
A nine year old boy , Young Cole , his eyes wide with wonder .
watching something intently .
We Hear the sounds of the P . A . System droning Flight Information mingled with the sounds of urgent Shouts , running Feet , Exclamations .
Young Cole ' S Pov : twenty yards away , a Blonde Man is sprawled on the floor , blood oozing from his gaudy Hawaiian shirt .
A Brunette in a tight dress , her face obscured from Young Cole ' S view , rushes to the injured man , kneels beside him , ministering to his wound .
Angle On Young Cole , flanked by his Parents , their faces out of view , as they steer him away .
Young Cole resists momentarily , mesmerized by the drama .
Young Cole ' S Pov : intermittently visible through a confusion of Figures rushing through the foreground , the Blonde Man reaching up and touching the cheek of the kneeling Brunette in a gesture of enormous tenderness , a gesture of farewell , while the P . A . System continues its monotonous monotone . Cole , late thirties , dark hair , comes awake in a bunk cage , one of many stacked four high along both sides of a long dim corridor .
He blinks in the near dark , shaken , disoriented .
Then , as he " recovers " from his very vivid dream , We Get Our Flashlights glare .
In the half - light , Cole sees spooky figures , Guards , moving among the locked bunk / cages .
Cole turns and whispers to the occupant of the next cage , Jose .
Jose ' s face is almost lost in shadow .
What there is of it is youthful .
He ' s just a scared Puerto Rican kid !
Jose immediately rolls over and feigns sleep as Scarface , a menacing guard with a jagged scar running down his cheek , looms close to Cole ' s cage and unlocks it .
Cole ' s alone , struggling to get into what looks like a space suit in a room where suits hang like ghosts with blank eyes .
Cole has the torso of the suit on now and is trying to close it .
Cole looks for the source of the voice , a tiny grate in the wall .
Cole , wearing the " space suit " and a helmet with a plastic visor , steps into a tiny chamber , a kind of air lock .
The heavy door clangs shut behind him .
He ' s alone .
Cole ' S breath comes quicker now as he sucks oxygen from the air tanks on his back .
On the opposite wall is another door with a huge wheel lock .
Cole turns the heavy wheel , opens the door , steps through It Cole ' S in an ascending elevator that groans and creaks .
He looks down at a crudely drawn map he holds in his gloved hand .
The map shows a series of tunnels and ladders .
Cole pans a flashlight , probing the filthy sewer he ' s wading through Rats flee the blade of light , scurry across islands of rusting junk .
The flashlight beam settles on a ladder mounted in the wall .
Reaching the rusted ladder , Cole starts to climb awkwardly .
A Scraping Noise as a heavy man - hole cover is pushed up and moved aside .
Cole ' S helmeted head emerges from below .
Cole ' S Pov Through His Plastic - Visored Helmet : a city in moonlight !
A surreal image of abandoned buildings .
No people anywhere .
The only sounds are the Wind and Cole ' S Breathing .
Cole ' S light reveals abandoned vine - covered automobiles .
Moving to the nearest car , Cole searches in the vines for something .
Finds it .
An insect .
Cole takes the bug in his gloved hand .
As he clumsily inserts it into a collection tube , something makes him turn .
There ' s something across the street in the dark .
Something alive .
Cole points his flashlight and reveals . a Bear !
Startled by the light , the animal blinks , then stands on its rear legs and Roars .
Angle On Cole , staring wide - eyed .
Then , the Bear sinks down onto all fours and , trying to avoid the flashlight , it pads quickly down the street .
Using the flashlight to see , Cole reaches down to the cracked floor and gets another specimen .
Dogshit !
The only sound is Cole ' S labored Breathing .
Then , a different Sound .
Grrrr !
A dog .
More Grrrrs .
More dogs .
Then , a Yip .
Then , Vicious Growls .
It ' s a Dogfight !
A giant Owl , perched on an overhead traffic light , raises its wings and lifts off . rising higher and higher into the brightening sky .
Below , on the street , Cole trudges along , passing deserted buildings , windows broken , rusted signs dangling .
Cole ' S light reveals a spider web just inside the store .
A large Spider tries to hide from the light .
Cole reaches carefully into the web and plucks the spider and puts it into one of his specimen tubes .
Then , he shines his light all around the once elegant store .
There ' s nothing but aisle after aisle of moldering consumer goods .
As Cole comes out of the store , the first rays of the sun hit the building .
Cole stops , squints into the light through his visor .
Cole ' S Pov : spray - painted on the wall a long time ago is a stenciled logo of twelve monkeys holding hands in a circle .
Over it is written , " We Did It "
Cole looks up .
Cole ' S Pov : high up on a building across the street , a Lion patrols a ledge , pauses , looks out majestically over his world .
Roaring Water , powerful torrents gushing from nozzles in the wall , pummel the still - suited Cole .
Stark naked and shivering , Cole is being scrubbed with brushes on long poles wielded by two Hulking Figures in bulky decontamination suits , their personas lost in their windowed masks .
It ' s a grim scene in a grim cement room with damp , dripping walls .
From an unseen source comes an Amplified Voice .
Cole lifts his arms and the Figures start scrubbing his armpits .
Still naked , Cole is seated on a stool while a Masked Technician in a less elaborate , less bulky decontamination outfit draws blood from Cole ' S arm with an old - fashioned hypodermic needle .
Cole glances toward a single , nearly opaque " window " of thick plastic in the rusty iron wall .
Vague Figures seem to lurk behind the translucent aperture , studying him .
The Technician slips the blood sample through a slot in the wall .
Ushered in by two guards , Tiny and Scarface , Cole looks around .
Cole ' S Pov : wails hidden by old headlines , articles , maps , charts . a blackboard covered with elaborate , sophisticated formulae . surfaces heaped with cracked monitors , gerry - rigged computers held together with string , lasers lost in tangles of cable , ancient tube amplifiers , a dilapidated cardboard reconstruction of a city , stacks of moldering books and tattered computer printouts . and , seated at a long conference table , staring at Cole , six Scientists : an Astrophysicist , Engineer , Botanist , Microbiologist , Zoologist , and a Geologist .
They represent a " modern " science where brilliant new ideas interface with crude , outdated , patched - together technologies .
Cole ' S eyes return to the walls .
Headlines : " Clock Ticking !
No Cure Yet .
Cole ' S head turns quickly to the Engineer .
The Guards exchange a look , shrug , exit , closing the door .
Cole goes to the empty chair at the conference table , sits down .
The Scientists don ' t say anything .
They just study him carefully .
Cole , starting to look very tired now , stands at the blackboard sketching a detailed map of exactly where he was last night .
As the Scientists start to whisper animatedly among themselves , Cole ' S eyes drift across the newspaper clippings taped to the wall .
One headline screams , " Virus Mutating "
Another features a photo of an Old Man and the words , Scientist Says , " It ' S Too Late For Cure .
Startled , Cole closes his eyes obediently .
Blackness .
Like Cole , We See Nothing .
But we Hear their Voices .
The Voices blur into a cacophony and Fade Into the droning P . A . System at the airport .
The Dream Again !
But at an earlier moment .
Young Cole , flanked by his Parents , whose faces are out of view , is watching a Plane land through one of the big glass windows that lines the concourse leading to the departure gates .
Suddenly , a Shout , followed by raised Voices , interrupts the monotonous airport routine .
As Young Cole and his Parents turn to see what ' s going on , a man we ' ll call Mr .
Ponytail , his face averted , hurries past them , bumping Young Cole with a Chicago Hulls Sports Duffle Bag .
Young Cole sees little more than the gaudy pants , the duffle , and the man ' s ponytail flopping as he rushes towards the gates .
Just then , a Woman ' S Voice cries out , " Nooooooooo "
Young Cole turns back toward the Security Check Point just as Travelers scatter madly , some diving to the floor , others running .
A Terrified Traveler , hitting the floor close by , looks up at Young Cole with panicky eyes , and asks .
Cole comes abruptly awake .
Seated now , he ' s facing the Scientists .
The Scientists react , whispering urgently among themselves .
Cole starts to nod off again , then comes awake with a start as the Engineer speaks to him .
Cole keeps his face impassive .
Cole gives away nothing .
He ' s in a box here .
He has no choices .
He stares at the tapping pencil .
A strikingly " real " world of bright colors .
Extravagant paintings adorn the walls .
A Poet , tiny and ruddy faced , squints over his glasses as he reads in a booming voice to an Audience of thirty seated on folding chairs .
As the Poet reads , we Study the audience , mostly Yuppie Culture Junkies or Bohemians .
Among them , a light - haired woman of twenty - eight , soberly dressed , wearing glasses .
She ' s Kathryn Railly .
And it ' s her beeper that suddenly Beeps .
Beep !
Beep !
Beep !
Beep !
Scowling at the outrageous interruption , the Poet looks up from the text just as Railly , tumbling , shuts off the beeper and rises , embarrassed .
As she makes her way to an exit , the glaring Poet continues .
Detective Franki leads Railly past crowded holding cells .
Franki pauses , indicating a tiny observation window of thick meshed glass in an otherwise solid door , and Railly looks through it .
Railly ' S Pov Through The Window : a Man , his back to her , in strait - jacket and prison denims , examining the wall of the padded cell with the distorted intensity of a " mental case .
Railly ' S Pov Through The Window : the Man in the cell turns , looks right at her .
In spite of the cuts and welts , it ' s clearly Cole .
Cole stares at Railly .
The environment is intensely real . vivid colors . each sound , however slight , very distinct , almost loud . and yet she appears to him almost like a vision .
Cole looks stunned .
Cole , bound tightly by the strait - jacket , heavy manacles on his ankles , is being escorted down the corridor by two surly Policemen .
Policeman # 2 smirks as he unlocks a heavy steel door .
Then , Policeman # 2 swings the steel door open and sunlight overwhelms Cole , blinding him in a dazzling fury of white light .
A Mini - van , the kind of vehicle used to transport a half dozen prisoners , crawls through a busy street .
The Police Department logo is prominent on the side of the van beneath barred windows .
Fierce spray recalls the decontamination in the future .
Cole stands stark naked under the shower while two muscular attendants , Palmer and Billings , supervise .
As Palmer shuts off the water , Billings hands Cole a towel and starts inspecting his scalp .
Cole gets the hint of menace in the message and submits to the lice inspection , only his eyes revealing his frustration .
Cole stands in the doorway , stunned by his first sight of the large room .
His eyes go to the heavily - grilled windows where light pours in from outside .
Then , to the Tv , where a Cartoon Commercial makes raucous noises .
Patients , in K - Mart street clothes or ratty robes , stare gloomily at the Tv , or play cards , pace , or just stare blankly .
Billings is at Cole ' S side , beckoning to a patient , Jeffrey Mason , a twenty year old white youth dressed in khakis and a plaid shirt .
As Billings walks away chuckling , Jeffrey turns to Cole .
Cole nods and Jeffrey indicates card tables where Patients are playing cards , checkers , chess , or working on jig saw puzzles .
Cole sees a partially completed puzzle of the well - known painting , The Peaceable Kingdom , depicting a serene world of animals in harmony .
A woman orderly , Terry , turns from the feeble Patient she ' s helping .
Abruptly , Jeffrey stifles his hysteria , takes a deep breath and continues , completely calm now .
But Cole isn ' t listening .
He ' s mesmerized by the Tv .
This last thought actually penetrates Cole ' S focus on the Tv and he turns to Jeffrey who ' s picking up speed again .
Just then , Tj Washington , a somber - looking African American in a bathrobe , taps Cole on the shoulder .
The P . A . System interrupts , startling Cole .
Cole is agitated , speaking forcefully .
Railly , four other Psychiatric Residents , including Railly ' S best friend , Marilou Martin , and their chief , Dr .
Owen Fletcher , sit around a beat - up conference table , watching Cole , who sits facing the doctors , with Billings looming behind him .
( Some of the Doctors bear a strong resemblance to the Scientists Of The Future .
Suddenly , Cole reaches out and Billings lunges forward , but Cole is just grabbing a pad and pencil .
Fletcher restrains Billings with a hand signal .
Cole waves a sketch of the dancing monkey logo we saw earlier .
Doctors exchange knowing looks .
This is an old story , apparently .
Cole stops , sees Dr . Fletcher tapping his pencil .
Cole ' S seen that tapping before - in the future !
It disorients him .
Cole doesn ' t answer .
He ' s staring at the tapping pencil .
Two of the residents exchange quick knowing looks .
Cole looks desperately toward Railly , pleading eyes meeting hers .
Four little Kids Scream and Squabble while the phone Chirps insistently in the tiny , cluttered apartment and a harried Mother lunges for the phone , answers sharply .
The Mother slams down the phone .
A dismayed Cole still has the receiver in his hand .
Sympathetically , Railly takes it from him .
Cole is clearly agitated , starts to pace , upset .
Nuts ?
Railly frowns , studying the distracted man with intense interest .
It ' s clear Cole is becoming a special patient and Railly ' S cool , detached demeanor is giving way ever so slightly .
Railly recovers her distance , her poise , as she takes a bottle , pours out some tablets , and holds them out to Cole .
Mr .
Ponytail races past the startled Young Cole .
Was it Jeffrey wearing gaudy pants and a ponytail ?
It was definitely Jeffrey ' S Voice .
Travelers dive for cover as a Woman ' S Voice cries out .
The Terrified Traveler looks up at Young Cole , makes eye contact , but doesn ' t speak .
The Terrified Traveler looks a lot like Dr . Fletcher !
Just then , Young Cole is distracted by a running figure .
It ' s the Blonde Man in the Hawaiian shirt , but he ' s not injured .
He ' s sprinting toward the gates , glancing back over his shoulder , his moustache slightly askew !
A sharp Crack of a Gunshot rings out !
Then , Dazzling Light .
Everything goes white !
Cole ' S eyes blink awake , blinded by a flashlight .
He ' s lying in one of thirty beds in a darkened ward .
Disoriented .
Which world is this ?
The room is full of Breathing , Snoring , occasional Moans .
He can barely discern the shadowy figures of an Orderly and a Nurse , making their rounds , checking each bed .
His eyes adjusting to the darkness , Cole watches them exit .
He turns and sees a patch of moonlight coming in a barred window .
With a quick glance at the sleeping Patients , he slips out of bed , makes his way stealthily to the window , peers out .
Cole ' S Pov : the moon , glowing in the sky , illuminating a single tree .
Under the tree , in silhouette , a Couple embraces , kisses .
Angle On Cole , looking out the window , absorbed .
Alarmed , Cole turns , sees Jeffrey in the next bed .
Cole checks the grill anyway .
Cole has become preoccupied with a small Spider creeping along the window sill .
He ' s staring at it when he ' s distracted by a sudden Sound .
Grabbing the Spider , Cole scrambles back into bed just as the door opens and an Orderly probes the dark room with the blade of his flashlight .
Angle On Cole , in bed , feigning sleep .
The flashlight clicks off and Cole hears the door close .
For a long moment the ward is silent except for Breathing , Snores , occasional Moans .
Then , Cole hears Jeffrey ' S hoarse whisper , picking up right where he left off .
Although Cole is preoccupied with the Spider struggling to get out of his fist , he can ' t help reacting to the word , " germs !
As Jeffrey warms to his subject , getting excited , Cole tries to figure out where to put the Spider .
No alternative .
Cole pops the Spider in his mouth and swallows it as Jeffrey prattles on . Patients are waking up as the Nurse and two Orderlies burst into the dorm and head straight for Jeffrey who ' s struggling to calm himself .
Cole watches the Orderlies grab Jeffrey and haul him away .
Angle On Tv Screen /
A Video Image Of A Lab Monkey , convulsing pathetically , a victim of shocks from the numerous wires attached to his tiny , restrained body .
Angle On Cole , sitting , writing intensely in a magazine with crayon , surrounded by dull - eyed Patients in pajamas and ratty robes , staring at the shuddering Lab Monkey on the Tv screen .
Cole locks up , startled , as Jeffrey , one eye bruised black , takes the seat next to him .
Angle On Tv , showing a laboratory Cat turning in mad circles , eating its own tail , while a News Reporter narrates .
The video footage now shows Lab Workers watching the results of their experiments passively .
Angle On Cole , reacting angrily .
As Cole stares , befuddled , Jeffrey sees Cole ' S magazine .
Just then Billings looms over Cole , extending a cup full of pills .
Angle On The Tv , a commercial playing : a beautiful couple romps in the surf in slow motion while an eager Narrator encourages .
Angle On Cole , very drugged , seated in front of the Tv along with other drugged Patients , staring at the screen .
Angle On The Tv , showing a picture of the Marx Brothers .
Cole sees Jeffrey sliding into the next chair and smirking .
Jeffrey flashes his palm open for one quick moment .
A Key !
Angle On Tv , almost mimicking Jeffrey with an ad . a Bull and a Bear and a computer screen showing stock prices fluctuating .
Angle On Cole , dumbfounded , watching Jeffrey dance crazily .
Angle On Billings , across the ward , reacting to Jeffrey , lets go of the Old Man he ' s helping as another orderly , Terry , presses a beeper , calling for help .
Angle On Cole , flabbergasted , as Jeffrey cavorts around the room .
Angle On A Hand , inserting the last piece into the Peaceable Kingdom Jigsaw Puzzle .
Just then , Jeffrey ' S Hand sweeps the puzzle off the table , scattering it into a thousand pieces .
Angle On Jeffrey , dancing away while the Patient who just completed the puzzle stares , very upset .
Other Patients are getting agitated , too , as Jeffrey avoids a lunge by Billings and dances off , using Patients as a shield .
Angle On Cole , realizing through the haze of drugs that Jeffrey is sending a message to him .
Cole looks at the ward door .
Cole ' S Pov : the Ward Door opens and two husky Orderlies enter .
One locks the door with a key , one of many on a key ring attached to his belt , as the other Orderly rushes to join the pursuit .
Angle On Cole , hesitating .
He locks at the door .
blurring in and out of focus .
He looks down at the key in his hand .
Angle On Jeffrey , being grabbed by the Orderlies .
Jeffrey resists wildly as they struggle to overpower him .
Angle On Cole , moving to the door .
He reaches it and tries to insert the key in the lock .
Angle On Lock , as the key keeps missing the hole .
Angle On Cole , glancing nervously over his shoulder .
Cole ' S Pov : Orderlies swarm over Jeffrey , don ' t notice Cole .
Angle On Cole , managing to insert the key .
It won ' t turn .
A Patient , close at hand , startles Cole , speaking into his ear .
Cole , unnerved , desperate tries the key again .
It turns .
Cole pauses , stares , not understanding .
Then , he opens the door .
Stepping through the door , Cole finds himself in an ante - room facing several elevators .
A uniformed Security Man sitting at a near - by desk doesn ' t even lock up from the magazine he ' s reading .
Barely daring to breathe , Cole steps toward the elevators so his back is to the Security Man .
But he doesn ' t know how to control this elevator .
What should he do ?
Cole freezes , sneaks a glance over his shoulder .
Cole ' S Pov : the Security Man continues his reading .
He ' s a big guy with reading glasses perched on his nose .
He looks exactly like the Menacing Guard In The Future . Scarface !
Angle On Cole , stunned !
Just then , an elevator door slides open .
The elevator ' s empty .
Cole steps into it .
The door closes , isolating Cole in the elevator .
Cole finds the down button , is about to push it when the elevator springs to life .
The numbers on the indicator over the door start to rise - 7 - 8 - 9 .
Then , the elevator stops and the door opens .
Two Doctors and an Aide stand in front of the door , waiting .
Cole hesitates .
They look at him .
They seem to expect him to exit .
Avoiding eye contact , Cole exits the elevator .
As they enter the elevator , the Doctors look back at Cole and frown .
Railly has just arrived for work .
She ' s slipping on her white doctor ' s coat when .
Dr .
Casey , one of the other residents , sticks his head in the door waving a crayoned message on a page torn from a magazine .
Casey enters the room , reading the scrawled words dramatically .
She reaches for the note but Casey moves it out of her grasp .
Casey is handing her the note when another resident , Dr . Goodins , sticks his head in the door .
He ' s upset .
Railly and Casey stare at him .
The Doctor stops , astonished , as the door bursts open .
It ' s Cole !
He stares at the Patient and the Cat Scanner .
The Patient lifts his head up and stares at Cole .
Cole turns and rushes back out the door .
Cole steps into the corridor , turns to his right , freezes .
A Posse of Security Guards is headed in his direction .
Cole turns to his left .
Four Orderlies are coming that way .
Cole ' S trapped .
A beat .
He attacks the nearest man . Billings .
Railly prepares a hypo , turns to Cole who is strapped tightly on a gurney with Billings and an Rn standing on either side , tense for more trouble .
One of Billings ' eyes is starting to swell shut .
Railly pushes the needle into Cole ' S skin .
Dr .
Fletcher faces Railly across the conference table .
Dr .
Casey , Dr . Goodins , Dr .
Marilou Martin are also there .
But just then , Billings sticks his head in the door .
Dr .
Fletcher looks into an empty padded cell as Railly , Martin , Goodin , Billings , Palmer and the Nurse crowd behind him .
Dr .
Fletcher indicates an impossibly tiny vent high in the wall .
Seen through the glass windows , a 747 takes off , climbing into the sky as the airport P . A . System drones .
Young Cole , watching the 747 , whirls at the Sound of a Commotion .
Mr .
Ponytail bumps him .
The Blonde Man sprints past .
The Woman ' S Voice calls out !
Travelers dive for cover briefly revealing the mysterious Brunette running after the Blonde Man !
But this time , Young Cole catches just a glimpse of her face .
She looks a little like Railly except for the dark hair , the make - up .
and the flashy earrings .
She calls out , her Voice blending weirdly with the P . A . System .
As Cole blinks awake , the digitized monotone of the P . A . System continues to drone in an unearthly Voice .
Cole ' S eyes seek the source of the sound and find it on the table in front of the panel of disapproving Scientists facing him .
It ' s a beat - up old tape recorder .
The tape ends , runs off the reel , flap . flap . flap .
The Scientists react , exchanging looks , whispers .
Then .
The Scientists stare incredulously , then turn , exchange knowing looks , huddle , start whispering to one another .
Struggling to stay awake Cole sees , blurrily , the Microbiologist staring at Cole intently .
For one moment , the face belongs to Cole blinks hard . and the Microbiologist has his own face , again .
Cole ' S head slumps forward now . and everything goes dark .
Cole comes awake with a start .
The room is dark now , except . a slide is being projected on a torn screen .
It ' s a picture of a stenciled graffiti . the logo of The Army of the 12 Monkeys .
Another slide Clicks into place .
Youthful Protesters , their placards featuring slogans and images of Animal Atrocities , confront Police in riot gear .
Zooming in , panning , the Scientists emphasize the Faces of the Protesters .
The Faces are unfamiliar to Cole ( though We will recognize some of them later on .
The image pans back to a much enlarged blurry Face among the Protesters .
In spite of the poor image , the expression of rage is clear , and it seems to resemble a somewhat older Jeffrey Mason .
The Scientists Mutter disapprovingly among themselves .
Cole stares at them , trying to figure out what they mean .
The Brunette runs up the concourse , her back to Young Cole , as frightened Passengers duck for cover , Shouting !
Cole opens his eyes .
Where is he ? Silence as he examines the tiny cell .
Bare cement walls .
High ceiling .
Same color and size as the isolation room at the county hospital .
Cole looks around frantically .
Up , down .
Where is the Voice coming from ?
Maybe from that tiny vent high in the wall .
Cole doesn ' t answer .
Cole is strapped on a gurney .
Scientists hover near - by , whispering .
The walls of the gloomy chamber are damp , sweating .
The gurney is being wheeled into a crudely welded steel tube . reminiscent of the cat scanner in County Hospital .
Cole ' S Pov : a last glimpse of anxious Faces , then the chamber door is Clanged shut .
Drizzling Rain .
And Screams .
Cole ' S in a deep trench , naked , eyes wide with terror .
What ' s going on ?
Where is he ? Soldiers in gas masks push urgently past him rushing toward their injured Comrades who ' ve been ripped apart by the shell that just hit fifteen yards away .
Muffled Voices shout through gas masks . in French .
Cole doesn ' t know it , but this is World War I !
Suddenly , a Sergeant confronts him , shouting in French .
Cole looks around desperately .
A horribly Wounded Man is being stretchered past them in the narrow trench .
Machine guns chatter close at hand .
Aak Aak Aak .
A grenade Explodes .
Reacting to the foreign word , the Sergeant jams his bayonet into Cole ' S ribs .
The Captain hurries over , snapping at Cole in German .
Cole turns , sees .
It ' s his friend , Jose , the Puerto Rican kid from the next cell in the " underground " time .
He ' s being carried past Cole now on a stretcher , blood all over his torso , horribly wounded .
Jose reaches out to Cole just as a Photographer takes a Flash Picture of the kid being carried off on the stretcher .
Suddenly , Shots Ring Out .
Cole goes down .
Hit in the leg !
Soldiers in gas masks rush past him like giant insects .
Looking to his left , Cole sees the Captain lying beside him , dead from a chest wound , his gas mask half off .
Cole is reaching for the mask when .
Stunningly quiet .
We are on a placid campus looking at the dignified architecture of Breitrose Hall .
Moving In we Focus On a large poster advertising " The Alexander Lectures , Spring 1995 .
We Skim the listings ( Jon Else on The Nuclear Agony , Dr . Andrew Miksztal on Biological Ethics , etc )
until we Settle On .
A large screen dominates the auditorium stage .
On the screen is a slide of an engraving from the Middle Ages showing a Madman in apparent agony , his mouth shaped to a scream , as he is restrained by Peasants .
The projector Zooms slowly in on the agonized Face of this Madman as we Hear Railly ' S Voice lecturing .
We Discover Railly , six years older now , standing at a lectern in a pool of light .
She ' s dwarfed by the giant screen where the engraving is replaced by a series of slides of woodcuts showing scenes of pestilence in the Middle Ages as she lectures to an audience of mostly Scholarly Types .
On The Screen , a Series of Slides show images of World War I Soldiers in gas masks , in death throes , etc . On The Screen , a slide of an old deteriorated photograph shows Jose , the Puerto Rican kid , strapped to a stretcher , being carried by Soldiers through the trenches during an attack .
Jose appears to be ranting madly as the projector Zooms Closer on his face until the image approximates Munch ' s famous painting .
The Audience gives a nervous Chuckle .
On The Screen , a different old photograph of Jose .
This time he ' s in a military hospital , gaunt , haunted , very ill .
As Railly continues , we Scan the Audience and Discover Marilou Martin , Railly ' S friend , and Marilou ' S Husband , Wayne Chang , both listening attentively .
Further away , another Man listens intently .
A Man with shoulder - length carrot - colored hair .
His name is Dr . Peters .
A stack of new books .
The Doomsday Syndrome , Apocalyptic Visions of the Mentally Ill by Dr . Kathryn Railly Surrounded by enthusiastic members of the audience , Railly is seated at the table signing books but Dr .
Peters has her ear .
Dr .
Peters smiles self - importantly at Railly as an elderly disheveled Professor elbows in front of him .
As the Professor babbles , Marilou Martin and her husband , Wayne Chang , appear and whisper .
A full moon .
Colleagues in a Volvo pull out of the parking lot , calling , " Congratulations " to Railly .
She waves back as she hurries to her black Acura , one of the last cars left in the lot .
The outside lights of Breitrose Hall go off .
Railly seems to be alone in the lot as she fishes keys from her purse , unlocks her car door , starts to open it when .
Suddenly , she ' s grabbed from behind in a choke - hold by a large shadowy Man looming out of the darkness behind her .
Unable to scream , she writhes and kicks as he forces her into the front seat .
Railly freezes , terrified , as he opens the rear door and scrambles in behind her .
Fighting to suppress the quiver in her voice , Railly says .
Glancing in the rear view mirror , Railly sees penetrating eyes peering out of the shadows , no other features .
Half - turning in the seat , she holds out the keys to him .
He grabs her hair and yanks her head back hard , speaking fiercely into her ear , his face last in shadow .
The engine Starts , the Acura backs up , then heads for the exit .
Steering fearfully , Railly hears him speak more calmly now .
As she makes the turn , Railly glances in the rear view mirror , sees him unfolding a tattered map .
His face is lost in darkness but she glimpses ragged , torn clothing as he tries to read the map by the intermittent glow of passing street lights .
Railly obeys .
She glances in the mirror again , hesitates , then boldly switches on the dome light , holding her breath fearfully for his reaction .
He grunts appreciatively .
Relieved , she looks in the mirror again , trying to get a better look at him , but now his features are concealed by the map .
Startled , Railly whirls , looks right at him .
He ' s lowered the map .
It ' s Cole !
Haggard , unshaven , dirty .
Cole is indicating a freeway entrance .
Railly turns the wheel sharply .
The Acura veers up the ramp and onto the freeway .
Railly glances in the mirror , sees Cole settling back wearily against the seat .
She says carefully .
Railly turns on the radio and immediately We Hear the Sound of Surf and the Cries of gulls , background to an oozing baritone Commercial .
Cole sits up , alert , listening intently .
Cole ' S eyes narrow , concentrating on this personal message .
Cole frowns as the Sound of breaking Surf and crying Gulls fills the car .
It ' s confusing !
He blurts out . Observing his confusion in the mirror , Railly assumes her professional tone .
Cole frowns .
He did think it was for him , but she ' s probably right .
He breaks off reacting to the Radio Music !
Fats Domino singing " Blueberry Hill !
Cole grins , mouth agape , eyes wide like a kid ' s .
As Railly cranks up the volume , she watches the mirror incredulously , sees him stick his head out the window into the wind , mouth open , " eating " the air hungrily .
" Blueberry Hill " Blares as the Acura , Cole ' S head out the rear window , zips past a sign at 65 mph .
The sign says , " Philadelphia 233 Miles "
Railly glances in the mirror at the nut in the rear seat with his head out the window .
what can she do ?
Just then , while she ' s trying to figure something out , an Announcer ' S Voice breaks in . Cole pulls his head back inside with a frown , troubled now .
Railly glances at him as she scans stations .
It ' s Ivory Joe Hunter singing , " Since I Met You , Baby .
Ecstatic , Cole sticks his head out the window again .
Cole ' S Pov : the heavens , glittering with a million stars and a lover ' s moon as Ivory Joe croons the achingly romantic lyrics .
Angle On Cole , wind in his hair , eyes shining , gulping air blissfully .
Two Police Officers and an anxious Marilou Martin listen to an answering machine ' s message while a hungry Cat cries plaintively .
The machine switches off .
The Police Officers exchange a look .
The Acura is parked outside room 46 of the Highways & Byways Motel , which has definitely seen better days .
The Tv is on .
A commercial is just starting .
A catfood jingle .
The sound of Heavy Breathing .
Angle On Cole , sweating , Breathing Heavily , sprawled on one side of the double bed , sound asleep .
Gunshot !
Young Cole glimpses the Blonde Man staggering , wounded .
The mysterious Brunette races past him toward the Blonde Man , and Young Cole again glimpses the resemblance to Railly , in spite of the dark hair , the make - up , the flashy earrings .
Close at hand , Young Cole ' S Father , his face still out of view , says .
Cole comes awake with a start .
He stares , disoriented , at the Catfood Commercial on the Tv .
Cole turns to Railly , beside him on the bed , frightened and helpless , her jacket arranged to restrain her like a strait - jacket .
Cole ' S instinct is to free her at once , but he controls his impulse .
He looks away , gets up , and , wincing , limps to the dresser , stepping around empty fast - food cartons .
He pulls a razor and shaving soap from a paper bag , then goes into the bathroom , leaving the door open , and starts to shave .
Finished shaving , Cole re - enters the bedroom , toweling his face .
Cole is rummaging through Railly ' S wallet , pulling out money .
He heads for the door .
Too late !
He shuts the door behind him , leaving her alone .
Angle On The Tv Screen , where an Anchorman sits at a News Set .
Angle On Railly , twisting and struggling on the bed , trying to get loose , tears welling in her eyes .
Cole puzzles over a junk food vending machine , inserts coins tentatively .
Angle On Tv , the picture of Railly filling the screen .
Railly maintains a professional deadpan , says nothing as they pass a pickup truck with a Mother , Father , and five Kids in the back .
Cole stares at the Kids , a sad look in his eyes .
Railly and Cole both react to the radio , suddenly alert .
Railly stares at Cole .
Cole reaches over and changes stations . Music again .
Cole quickly checks the map as Railly stares , then turns left .
An elderly Evangelist with long stringy hair , wearing a tattered bathrobe , stands on a Skid Row corner Waving a worn Bible as he rants at disinterested Derelicts , Winos , and Bag Ladies .
Angle On Railly ' S Acura , crawling down the street , Railly driving , Cole , beside her , staring out the window .
Cole is scrutinizing the crumbling walls , boarded - up store fronts , tattered posters , decaying signs , miserable " Residents .
Cole ' S Pov : a Bmw speeds toward them , passes , its radio Blaring !
On foot now , Cole pulls an astonished Railly to a wall covered with graffiti , a hopeless tangle of symbols , words , and crude pictures .
Clueless , Railly stares at the wall , then at Cole .
Cole touches a bit of red - stenciled graffiti hidden under gang insignias .
We can just see Twelve Monkeys holding hands in a circle .
He pulls her along the sidewalk .
No question , he ' s insane .
At the next alley entrance , Cole stops abruptly .
Then , still keeping a firm grip on Railly ' S arm , he starts ripping down newly tacked - up posters announcing a Rap concert .
Railly stares at him , then turns and is looking all around when , suddenly , Cole pulls her up tight and threatens . Angle On Cole , not listening , staring triumphantly !
He ' s found another partially obscured stencil of The Twelve Monkeys !
But just then , a raspy Voice startles Cole .
Cole whirls , sees a derelict , Louie , leering at him , speaking in a voice eerily like the Raspy Voice from the next cell in the future .
Railly looks from Louis to Cole , sees Cole ' S stunned reaction .
He opens his mouth wide .
No Teeth ' Cole grabs Railly and pulls her into the alley and down it .
Cole breaks off , freezes as he sees . there on a brick wall is a stencil of the Dancing Monkeys And further on , another red stencil !
Crackheads huddle against a building , sucking their pipes , oblivious to Cole pulling Railly past .
Cole scans the walls for messages in the confusion of graffiti .
Railly is considering her surroundings dubiously when , suddenly , Cole pulls her toward the mouth of a dark and forbidding alley .
Cole ignores her , yanking her after him into the alley .
Two Tom Cats face off , arching their backs and Hissing menacingly .
Cole avoids them as he pulls Railly into the gloom .
Angle On Railly , seeing something alarming twenty yards ahead !
Railly ' S Pov :
Two Thugs , standing over a Man , kicking him .
Railly tries to stop , but Cole , intent on the wall messages , doesn ' t notice the Thugs .
The Two Thugs turn and spot Cole and Railly moving toward them .
These creeps have mean eyes , predator faces .
Railly digs her heels in , forcing Cole to stop .
Too late .
While Cole turns and stares at her , uncomprehending , the Two Thugs are approaching .
Startled , Cole turns to face them .
The Second Thug lunges for Railly ' S purse , yanks it from her .
Cole reaches to grab it back , but . Whack !
The First Thug smacks Cole hard across the face with something metallic .
Bloody - faced , dazed , Cole doesn ' t even have a chance to clear his head as the First Thug shoves the hard object against Cole ' S cheek .
It ' s a cheap thirty - eight pistol .
Railly turns to run , gets two steps before the Second Thug knocks her roughly to the ground .
Looming over her , the Second Thug starts to unzip his fly .
Railly looks over to Cole , Sees .
Cole dropping to his knees , groveling at the First Thug ' S feet .
The First Thug steps close , kicks Cole contemptuously , cocks his foot for a second kick when . Cole uncoils , lunging , rising , his strong arms around the bigger man ' s calves , lifting him mightily , high off the ground .
The gun Fires wildly as Cole staggers forward with the First Thug in his arms and smashes the man into the brick wail behind him .
The First Thug goes down in a heap , dropping the pistol .
Zipping his fly hastily , the Second Thug turns to deal with Cole but Cole attacks him . rocking him again and again with savage blows that come one after another with lightning speed .
The Second Thug staggers back , bloody and dazed as Railly watches , amazed .
Turning back to the First Thug , Cole sees the Man reaching for the dropped pistol .
Cole kicks him viciously in the jaw .
The First Thug ' S head whips back .
Snap !
He collapses against the brick wall .
Cole turns back to see the Second Thug retreating down the alley as fast as he can stagger .
Railly stares up at Cole .
He looks very dangerous .
He glances in her direction as he pockets the pistol .
As Railly gets to her feet , she sees Cole bend over the motionless Thug and quickly go through his pockets .
Cole ignores the question as he pockets the man ' s wallet and a handful of bullets , then turns and snaps at Railly .
As Cole yanks her roughly away , she looks back , sees the First Thug ' S sightless eyes , wide open . staring blankly .
Cole , pulling her again , sees more " 12 Monkeys " on the wall .
The Evangelist , spotting Cole and Railly hurrying past him , points urgently at Cole .
But Cole has stopped and is staring at .
A Storefront Office .
its windows covered with posters .
The sign over the office says , Freedom For Animals Association .
Earnest young activists , Fale , deathly pale , Ben , long haired , and Teddy , muscular , are gathered around a counter collating leaflets that demand an End To Specieism .
Behind them , a large poster proclaims , " Animals Have Souls , Too .
Just then , there ' s a tremendous Clap Of Thunder as the Activists look up and see Cole and Railly enter .
Cole looks startled .
It sounds like torrential Rain Pouring in here .
Maintaining a tight grip on Railly ' S wrist , he looks around frantically for an explanation for the tropical downpour .
Bookshelves line two walls .
The front window is blanked cut with posters of Animal Rights demonstrations , newspaper clippings , photos of animal atrocities .
The fourth wall features the counter where the three Activists face Cole as a Jungle Bird Screams in the Downpour .
Cole looks confused as the Rain abates and an Elephant trumpets an urgent warning .
Cole ' S eyes follow her look .
It ' s a tape recorder underneath a sign advertising , " The True Music Of The World .
Fale glances at Ben and Teddy .
" We have a problem "
the look says .
Monkeys start Chattering on the tape as Teddy comes around the counter , bigger than Cole , physically imposing , menacing .
Cole backs away , a firm grip on Railly , as a Lion Roars .
Teddy breaks off mid - sentence . freezes .
Cole is pointing a pistol at them .
A Tiger Snarls .
Monkeys Chatter wildly as Teddy backs up .
Cole is suddenly very much in charge and self - confident again .
A Baboon Howls with laughter .
Railly hurries to the door to lock it as Ben says to Fale .
The three Activists are tied tightly together in the middle of the floor in this dimly - lit , windowless basement .
They ' re very frightened , eager to cooperate .
Cole , the gun next to him , rummages through boxes of papers while Railly watches helplessly .
Suddenly , Cole finds something he thinks he ' s seen before .
He holds it up .
It ' s a photograph of Dr .
Malcolm Mason , being escorted by a phalanx of riot cops through a mob of raging activists .
Cole holds up a clipping showing horrified Senators standing on their desks as Rattlesnakes slither along the Senate Floor .
In the crawling traffic , We Find a battered Ford covered with bumper stickers and painted slogans .
" I Brake For Animals .
A Rolodex Card with an address on " Outerbridge Road " for " Jeffrey Mason c / o Dr . Malcolm Mason " rests on a map spread across Cole ' S lap .
Cole is in the passenger seat , Railly ' S at the wheel , maneuvering in heavy traffic .
Cole glances out the window , indicates the People in passing cars . Commuters , Families , Truckers .
Cole is studying the map again .
Cole is absorbed in the map , his finger tracing " Outerbridge Road .
The Radio Blares a country song as the Ford zips along an open highway .
Cole has his head out the window , sucking air , loving the music , but his bliss is feverish now - he ' s not well .
As the Song ends , he pulls his head inside .
An Announcer ' S Voice intones over the Radio . Railly glances at him , sees he ' s in pain .
She feels so badly for him .
She wants to help him .
She says , tenderly .
Cole , refusing to succumb , instead , leans over to check the gas gauge .
The Gas Station Attendant checks the oil while Cole and Railly remain in the car .
She ' s pulling a gas card from her wallet .
Railly puts the card back into her wallet and pulls out cash as the Gas Station Attendant slams the hood down .
Railly starts opening the door .
Alarmed , Cole tries to stop her .
She looks him in the eye , then indicates the tiny Convenience Store appended to the Gas Station .
Cole looks helpless , hesitant .
She ' s in charge . for the moment .
The sun dazzles through the canopy of leaves .
We Hear the Car Radio but not the engine .
Cole , in his underwear , leans back on a large rock beside the Ford , his pants hanging on the car ' s open door .
He ' s staring up at the sun and the sky .
Railly finishes bandaging his thigh .
Railly wraps the bullet in some gauze and sticks it in her pocket while Cole continues staring up at the sky .
A beat .
Cole tries to stand up .
Railly puts an arm around him and helps him to his feet .
A beat .
They ' re very close .
They don ' t move .
Railly looks like she can barely breathe .
A beat .
The spell is broken .
He reaches for his pants , then turns back to her , suddenly grim .
Railly reacts , sudden fear in her eyes .
He looms over her .
He ' s cold now , steeled .
Railly steps back . horrified , realizing she ' s going to die .
A Secret Service Agent ambles vigilantly among the rows of luxury cars parked beside the brightly - lit rural mansion .
Encountering another Agent , he pauses .
Angle Under A Parked Mercedes , where Cole is hiding , listening to the receding Voices of the Agents .
Quickly , Cole rolls to the next car and under it .
He doesn ' t see . the pistol fell out of his pocket , under the Mercedes .
A formal dinner for forty .
Desert has been served .
Dr .
Malcolm Mason rises to the enthusiastic applause of the Guests .
While Guests laugh at Dr .
Mason ' S last remark , Secret Service Agent # 3 enters the room , scowling , looking for someone .
Agent # 3 spots who he ' s looking for .
Jeffrey Mason !
Angle On Jeffrey , as Agent # 3 whispers in his ear .
Angle On Dr . Mason , reacting with irritation to the disturbance .
Angle On Jeffrey , following the Agent out of the dining room , grumbling loudly enough to disturb his father ' s audience .
The conversation continues as Jeffrey and Agent # 3 enter the hall .
Cole , smudged with dirt and car grease , sitting in the shadows in a wingback chair , looks up as Jeffrey and Agent # 3 enter the room .
A Fourth Agent looms beside the wingback chair .
Halfway out the door , Jeffrey freezes .
A beat .
Jeffrey frowns , turns , considers Cole .
Then , suddenly , Jeffrey rushes to Cole and embraces him .
Cole is astonished .
The Agents are , too .
Jeffrey throws an arm around Cole ' S shoulder and starts leading him toward the door as the two Agents exchange narrow - eyed looks .
The Agents watch Jeffrey lead the limping , disheveled Cole out .
Guests pouring from the dining room into the hall meet Jeffrey and a very disconcerted Cole .
In the b . g , too far away to hear them , Agent # 4 trails Jeffrey and Cole as they maneuver through the Guests toward the grand staircase .
Jeffrey studies Cole .
Cole doesn ' t just talk crazy .
He looks crazy !
Jeffrey starts guiding Cole up the grand staircase as Cole , glancing back , spots Agent # 3 and Agent # 4 , both keeping an eye on him now .
Cole feels a firm grip on his shoulder , turns and sees Agert # 4 .
Agent # 4 is wishing Jeffrey would chill out even as the Third Agent is climbing up the staircase to help .
Cole is like a trapped animal .
He ' s being led down the staircase now with Jeffrey , right on his heels , yelling so Everyone can hear .
Cole stares back at Jeffrey as both Agents hustle Cole down the stairs .
It sounds true !
Jeffrey ' S so confident .
Suddenly , Cole , catching the Agents by surprise , wrenches free , shoves them aside , and stumbles down the rest of the staircase .
Cole heads for the front door , but there ' s an Agent there !
Cole turns and limps madly toward the dining room , pushing his way through the crowd of amazed Guests .
Servants , clearing the table , look up astonished as two Agents burst into the room .
Cooks stare , amazed , as two Other Agents burst into the kitchen and look about urgently .
A large projection Tv is on and a knot of Guests is gathered in front of it . watching the spooky Video Images .
Mrs . Mccann , a guest , watching the Tv , expresses concern .
Just then , two Agents burst into the den .
The Guests turn from the Tv , startled , stare open - mouthed , but the Agents have spotted an open window and are hurrying to it .
Agents Pov Out The Window : the rows of expensive parked Cars .
On The Tv Screen , Railly ' S photograph appears .
As the Agents run out of the room , a photo of Railly ' S abandoned Acura comes up on the Tv screen .
Pistols drawn , Agents move cautiously among the rows of parked luxury cars , checking inside and under the vehicles .
Cole , scrunched down on the floor next to the driver ' s seat , spots the key dangling from the ignition , then lifts his head slightly to study the shift mechanism , trying to figure it out .
Agents continue to move cautiously among the parked cars .
Cole eases himself into the driver ' s seat , tentatively slides the shift into " Drive , then turns the key .
Nothing happens .
Panic .
Cole studies the shift again .
Agent # 5 approaches the row where the Jaguar is parked .
Cole slides the shift from D to N .
He twists the key again .
The engine Roars . Seven Thousand Rpm !
Agent # 5 whirls at the sound .
Smash .
The Jaguar clips the Mercedes parked in front of it and accelerates right at him !
Agent # 5 dives aside just as the speeding Jaguar whizzes past him , slams into a parked Cadillac , bounces off , grinds between two other parked vehicles with a fierce scream of tearing metal .
Caught between two cars , Cole can only lean on the gas pedal .
The Jaguar comes free with a great Scccreeeeech .
Cole sees the driveway ahead in the moonlight .
Steering madly , he plows through shrubs and gardens heading for the driveway .
Lights off , veering wildly , the Jaguar reaches the driveway .
Agents are leaping into cars and a Helicopter is coming to life , its rotors whipping around .
Cole turns onto the road , careening crazily from one side to the other , unable to see ahead with no headlights .
He starts hitting switches .
The wipers come on , the Radio Blares .
Rounding a bend , an Oncoming Car heads straight at Cole .
Cole yanks the wheel as the Other Car , horn Blaring , just misses him .
Recovering , Cole loses the road , speeds crazily along the shoulder .
The Pilot , an agent , steers the chopper while the Co - Pilot pans a spotlight over the two lane road beneath them .
Just then , the Pilot sees headlights below .
Cole can see the road now in his headlights as the windshield wipers scrape frantically and the Radio Blares .
A spotlight hits the car and Cole hears the sound of the Helicopter as it lowers over him !
The Helicopter maneuvers over the speeding Jaguar .
Cole can see the underbelly of the Helicopter a few feet above his front windshield .
Desperate , he yanks the wheel hard , veering off the road .
Cole ' S Pov Through The Windshield : dense woods ahead .
The chopper pulls up sharply , avoiding the trees , then levels out .
The Pilot skims the top of the trees while the Co - Pilot rakes the forest below with his spotlight .
The Co - Pilot gets a brief glimpse of headlights through the leaves .
The headlights are gone .
Nothing but darkness below .
A weather forecast Blares from the radio of the steaming Jaguar , crumpled into a tree , the driver ' s door open .
A Police Officer , pistol drawn , approaches the car cautiously , as Other Officers and Agents stay behind trees , weapons ready .
The Police Officer lunges forward , pointing his weapon into the Jaguar .
He inspects the car , then turns and calls out .
Limping , bleeding from various cuts , Cole Crashes through underbrush as he follows a stream through the woods .
Suddenly , he sees what he ' s looking for .
The Ford . barely visible in the moonlight , parked in the trees beside the stream .
The car looks empty .
Total blackness !
The sound of keys in the lock .
Then , the trunk swings open and Cole stands in the moonlight , looking down Railly is in the trunk , tears of rage and frustration in her eyes .
Cole backs away , as Railly scrambles out of the trunk , swinging .
He slips , falls , and she starts kicking him as she rants hysterically .
Cole is lying on the ground , looking up , his lip caked with blood .
Noticing his cuts and torn clothes , she stops kicking him .
She looks at him .
Breakthrough ?
Very calm now , the doctor .
Cole reacts to the sound of Voices in the woods , dogs Barking .
Railly starts around to the front of the car .
Railly gets in the driver ' s seat . and starts to Honk the horn .
Angle On Cole , spotting something on the ground .
An insect !
He reaches down to grab it , but , instead , grins , grabs some grass , stands , and starts rubbing it happily all over his face .
The Horn Blares as Cole looks up at the sky .
Angle On The Night Sky , the moon full , the sky rich with stars .
Angle On Cole , tears of joy running down his face .
Angle On Railly , in the driver ' s seat , hearing near - by Shouts from the woods .
The police are almost here .
She gets out of the car , starts around toward Cole .
She breaks off mid - sentence . stares , stunned !
Cole is gone .
Disappeared .
Railly is being " debriefed " by Police Officers and Fbi Agents .
A Cop enters , hands a photo to Lieutenant Halperin who studies it .
Railly looks at the photo , an 8 x 10 of the First Thug , slumped against the alley wall , obviously dead .
Young Cole stares , eyes wide .
He sees the Brunette , cradling the head of the Blonde Man as he sprawls on the concourse . Cole blinks awake .
All he can see are blurry faces hovering over him , hammering him with questions .
The Tv shows film of Railly leaving the police station .
Railly ' S friends , Marilou and Wayne , are watching the Tv .
A door opens and Kathryn Railly , wearing a robe , comes out of her bedroom .
She still looks exhausted Followed by her cat , she enters the kitchen area and turns on the kettle as Wayne hastily turns down the Tv .
The old mug shot of Cole appears on the screen and Railly remotes the volume up .
Railly goes to the window , pushes aside the drape , and sees .
Her Pov : Across The Street .
A Cop keeps watch .
Railly returns to the kitchen area where Marilou is getting the tea things out .
Angle On The Tv Screen , showing footage of a sheepish nine year old boy being led out of a barn by the police .
The cops look grim .
Railly stares at the Tv , stunned .
Voices !
Singing !
Cole blinks awake , looks around , confused , then stares in disbelief .
Crowded around Cole ' S bed , the Scientists are concluding a ragged , out of tune , rendition of " Blueberry Hill .
Seeing he ' s awake , Scientists break off the song and applaud .
Cole , confused , looks around , sees he ' s in a one - bed windowless room adorned with cheap reproductions of 19th and 20th century landscapes .
The Botanist responds to Cole ' S obvious disbelief with a friendly smile and the others join in rapid fire , overlapping .
Unseen until now , two guards , Tiny and Scarface , suddenly break through the ring of Scientists , push Cole down , and tighten the loose restraints , already in place , but unnoticed before .
Cole bursts into hysterical laughter .
Close On Kathryn Railly , insisting fiercely to someone .
Railly ' s talking to her former boss , Dr .
Owen Fletcher , psychiatrist sitting across from her in his office , tapping his pen .
Alone in his " hospital " room , Cole struggles without success to free himself from his restraints .
Startled , Cole freezes , then ignores the Raspy Voice and continues his feverish struggle .
Cole looks around in spite of himself .
Nothing to see but the walls and the landscape paintings .
Cole , agitated , rocks back and forth .
Then . Completely shaken , Cole hesitates for a long moment .
When he speaks , it comes out of him like air . a whisper .
Railly ' S in bed , asleep , having a very bad dream .
Suddenly , the bedside phone Rings .
Her eyes snap open .
A beat to orient herself .
Ring .
She reaches for the phone .
Close On Halperin , at his desk , talking into the phone .
Close On Railly , eager , concerned .
into the phone .
Close On Halpepin , noting her reaction with raised eyebrows giving an " I told you so " look to the Black Plainclothes cop across his desk , then continuing into the phone .
Angle On Railly , reacting , stunned .
Angle On Halperin , continuing soberly now .
Halperin considers the dead phone , glances at the Cop again .
Her hand still on the receiver , Railly looks shocked .
Then , she hurries into her study and starts frantically pulling neatly arranged piles of papers and books from a bookcase until she finds a copy of her book .
She leafs through it hurriedly , locates the picture of the Puerto Rican Kid in Wwi .
Peering closely , she tries to see everything in the picture .
Then , she turns and reaches for a research folder of old photographs and rummages through it until she finds !
It ' s an uncropped shot of Jose being carried on the stretcher in the trenches .
And there in the corner with no helmet , no gas mask , and just a bit of bare shoulder showing . it ' s Cole !
Clean shaven , clear eyed , Cole sits before the frowning Scientists .
The Scientists start to confer openly among themselves .
The Astrophysicist fixes Cole with a sharp , penetrating look .
Standing in front of a wall of glass in his office , overlooking a hi - tech lab below where Workers in white " space suits " work methodically ,
Dr . Mason speaks angrily into a phone .
His male Assistant , whose features we don ' t see , stops writing a formula on a blackboard and listens .
Railly , trying to stay calm , is talking to Dr . Mason on the phone .
Dr . Mason on the phone .
Dr .
Mason hangs up angrily and glares .
We see Dr . Mason ' s Assistant now .
It ' s Dr . Peters , the red - haired man who insisted to Dr . Railly you didn ' t have to be insane to think the world was coming to an end .
But Dr . Mason is lost in thought , not listening .
Cole is facing the Botanist who ' s using a pointer to indicate various fading photos and newspaper clippings tacked on the wall .
With a quick glance at the panel of Scientists staring at him from behind the long table , Cole replies like a good pupil .
Cole glances nervously at the suspicious Scientists as the Botanist switches on a slide projector and projects . a magazine photo of wall graffiti :
" Attention !
Police Are Cole stares at the picture .
Loud Banging !
The storefront window , completely covered with posters , quivers violently .
Images of Monkeys covered with electrodes , Baby Seals being viciously clubbed , Dogs jammed into tiny cages quiver as somebody beats on the window .
It ' s Railly .
Jeffrey , Ben , Teddy , and two of Jeffrey ' S youthful cohorts , Sandy and Kweskin , wait motionless beside a heap of cardboard cartons as Fale peeks out the front window through a slit between posters .
From littered doorways , Derelicts sneak peeks at Railly as she , seemingly mad , shakes the doorknob , then hammers on the door .
Railly whirls , sees Louie , the raspy - voiced toothless derelict .
But Louie is studying the pictures of the tortured animals now .
Railly follows his look .
Angle On An Old Chevy , parked across the street , the Plainclothes Cop slouched at the wheel , pretending to read a newspaper .
Louis gives her a look that says , " I ' m outta here "
But just then , Railly spots two Teznage Punks surreptitiously " tagging " their way along the street with cans of spray paint .
Railly stares at the Punks .
Fale watches Jeffrey go over a check list while Kweskin , Sandy , and Teddy organize materials , and Ben peeks out the small opening between posters at the front window .
Everybody freezes , looking toward 3en , who ' s peeking outside .
Then , except for Jeffrey , they all crowd around Ben to get a look .
Pov Through Slit : a glimpse of Railly , spray painting the front of the store !
Angle On Slack Plainclothes Cop , across the street in the Chevy , amazed , watching Railly spray painting .
He shakes his head wearily .
Anglz On Street Types , inching closer , watching Railly with amazement , too .
They include . an Irish Drunk , white haired , red - faced , bloated . a Native American with tormented eyes and a mangled ear . an African American with one eye . the Teenaged Punks .
a White Man , shabbily dressed , joining the knot of Onlookers , reacting at the sight of Railly .
It ' s Cole !
He pushes toward her .
Railly stops spraying , whips around at the sound of his Voice .
With a quick glance toward the Plainclothes Cop , Railly takes urgent charge of the situation .
Angle on Railly , desperately pulling Cole ' S hands off his head as she tries to block the Cop ' S view of Cole .
Angle On The Plainclothes Cop , checking the mug shot of Cole on his clipboard , then reaching for his radio mike .
Angle On Railly , reacting to the Cop speaking into his mike : she tosses the spray paint can aside , grabs Cole and tries to pull him along . but Cole isn ' t moving .
He ' s staring at the front of the Faa Store with disbelief !
Cole looks from the wall to the can rolling on the sidewalk , then back to the wall where Railly has sprayed the huge words .
It ' s the graffiti Cole saw in the future , in the picture !
But Railly ' S total attention is on their dilemma .
Very confused , Cole lets her drag him along the sidewalk , past Onlookers .
She looks crazier than he does .
Angle On The Chevy , making a sudden , urgent u - turn , almost colliding with a passing car .
Brakes Squeal and a Horn Blares .
Angle On Ben , peeking out , reacting to the drama .
Jeffrey abruptly switches from rage to good humor , adopting a supercilious smile and a patronizing tone .
They all stare , mesmerized , at the strutting Jeffrey .
Is he serious ?
Is he crazy ?
Doesn ' t matter - he ' s charismatic .
Jeffrey smiles smugly into Fale ' S flabbergasted face .
Jeffrey exits .
The others stare at the door .
An overflowing dumpster squats near the mouth of an alley .
The unmarked Chevy crawls slowly past the alley , the Plainclothes Cop ' S eyes searching everywhere .
Trash stirs in the dumpster and Railly ' S eyes peer up out of the torn cardboard boxes , rotting food , and styrofoam litter .
Her Pov : the Police Car passes from view .
Angle On Railly , emerging from the refuse , hissing .
A confused Cole emerges from the opposite end of the dumpster , bits of lettuce in his hair .
But she ' s not listening .
She ' s peeking out the alley entrance .
Railly ' S Pov : across the street is a run - down skid row hotel , The Desk Clerk , an old alkie who hates trouble but finds it often , stares across the counter suspiciously at Railly and Cole .
The Desk Clerk squints warily at this turn of events .
Then , he turns , gets a key , turns back and hands it to her .
Railly turns , Cole follows , and they walk quickly to the stairs passing the stares of gloomy Residents sitting on torn sofas chairs in front of an old Tv with hideous color .
Angle On The Desk Clerk , watching Railly and Cole climb stairs .
As they disappear from view , he picks up the phone , punches a number , speaks into the phone .
Cole sits on the lumpy bed in the dingy room , watching Railly pace back and forth like a mad woman .
Cole looks at her .
She ' s really upset .
Railly pulls a photo from her purse , shows it to Cole .
It ' s the uncropped picture from her book , the photo of Jose in Wwi with a fuzzy image of Cole on the edge of the frame .
Cole stands , moves close to her .
Wham !
The door flies open , kicked violently , the flimsy lock not holding .
A menacing figure stands in the doorway .
Wallace .
A wiry biker - type with jail house tattoos and mean eyes .
Cole and Railly are too stunned to say anything as Wallace looks them over coldly , insolently , then advances on Railly .
Wallace smashes Railly in the face .
She flies back against the wall and onto the floor as Wallace spins around to Cole who is stepping toward him , but Wallace is now holding a knife .
A beat .
Cole puts his hands up placatingly as he backs around Wallace and moves to Railly , whose eye is already swelling .
Railly reaches a hand up to Cole for assistance , but , he grabs her purse instead , swings it around , Smashes Wallace in the face with it , then grabs the pimp ' s arm and Snaps it like it was a twig !
The knife clatters to the floor as Wallace yelps in pain and Cole slams him to the floor , straddles his chest , retrieves the near - by knife , and presses it sharply against Wallace ' S neck .
Cole hesitates .
A shadow .
Railly turns toward the door and glimpses a Face disappearing , then hears Shouts from the hallway .
Being very careful not to move his neck , Wallace reaches into his pocket and produces a thick roll of bills , which Railly grabs .
Cole moves off Wallace and , keeping the knife close , yanks him to .
Her Pov :
A fire escape leads down into an alley .
Railly turns just in time to see Cole shove Wallace into the bathroom , follow him in , slam the door behind them , and Lock it .
Wallace cowers back against the shower stall .
Wallace breaks off , bug - eyed , reacting to something we don ' t see !
Railly is pounding on the bathroom door now as , suddenly , it opens and Cole steps out , the knife in his right hand , dripping with blood .
Cole shakes his head " no " as blood oozes from his mouth .
Railly ' s astonishment turns to emotion as it dawns on her the choice he ' s made .
Given up the future ( if it exists , and it ' s looking like it does !
Risking his life to be with her !
For this brief time !
She ' s overwhelmed , lips trembling , tears welling in her eyes .
But just then , the Sounds of Shouts and feet Thundering up the stairs snap her back to reality .
Cops ' boots Thunder up the stairwell .
In between nervous glances toward the door , Railly supervises as Cole obediently blocks the bathroom door with the bureau .
Police Officers , led by the Plainclothes Cop , make a cautious entrance onto the 4th floor , guns drawn .
Seedy Hotel Residents point to Room 44 , then cower back into their doorways .
Cole and Railly clatter down the fire - escape , Cole in the lead .
They come to the end of the metal stairway .
It ' s a long distance to the ground .
Cole jumps down , turns , reaches up to her .
She lets herself down to him .
Their eyes meet .
He holds her in his arms for a moment .
Then , reluctantly , he puts her down .
They start running down the alley .
The Plainclothes Cop has his pistol out , his back to the wall alongside the open doorway to Room 44 .
The Uniformed Officers are backing him up , weapons drawn .
No response .
The Plainclothes Cop charges into the room in a crouch , pistol extended in both hands .
He pans the gun around the empty room .
His Pov : the open window . the blood on the floor .
A city bus disgorges a stream of Passengers at a stop in the tone downtown shopping district .
Among them , Railly looks furtively left and right , Cole on her heels .
She ' s hidden her bruised eye behind sun glasses ; he ' s holding a bloody handkerchief to his mouth .
As he steps to the sidewalk , Cole is overwhelmed by the bustling city , the tall downtown buildings .
His eyes go up .
Cole ' S Pov : a building , towering toward the sky .
A building with a ledge .
The same ledge the lion prowled in the future !
Angle On Cole , shaken , as Railly ushers him into the recessed entrance to a store .
Dazed by his experience and the flow of Shoppers , Cole watches her hurry to a pay phone twenty yards away , his view of her made intermittent by Pedestrians streaming past him , their Faces looming frighteningly close .
A Businessman jostles Cole , forcing him back against the display window .
Turning , he faces the angry jaws of a Bear only inches away Recovering from a jolt of terror , Cole realizes the Bear is a life - size toy in the display window .
Relieved , he looks back at Railly .
Cole ' S Pov : Railly , well out of earshot , speaking earnestly into the phone .
Angle On Cole , startled , as a Businessman , mistaking him for a panhandler , shoves a dollar into his hand .
Confused , Cole stares at the dollar , then turns to say something to the retreating Businessman , but just then he sees Railly rushing toward him , eyes sparkling with happiness , Laughing , ebullient .
Cole doesn ' t know how to respond , but a Passerby gives them a look .
Looking at her laughing face , Cole is struck with horror as he realizes the truth !
He starts to recite .
Now she ' s stunned .
She glances back and sees the phone booth twenty yards away .
Railly ' S eyes fill with horror as she grasps the meaning .
Angle On A Uniformed Cop , staring out the window of a Police Cruiser as it inches along in the bumper to bumper traffic .
Noticing something , he reaches for his radio .
Angle On Railly , spotting the Cruiser , grabbing Cole , pulling him into the Crowd .
Railly , whose sun glasses don ' t really hide her bruised eye , adds a man ' s Hawaiian shirt to the pile of other men ' s things heaped on a counter in front of a very suspicious Clerk .
But Cole ' S not here .
He ' s a short distance away . staring .
Cole ' S Pov : aisle after aisle of eager shoppers and a bounty of brand new consumer goods .
Angle On Cole , remembering another department store , dark and full of moldering merchandise .
Angle On Railly , turning again to the Clerk .
The Clerk stares at the huge roll of bills !
Surrounded by stripped and abandoned vehicles , the Van , with a Pest Control logo on its side , is parked on a trash - littered street beside the massive pillars of a towering freeway .
The Van is packed with Six Activists , Sandy and Kweskin among them , all wearing black .
Some of them have climbing gear , tool belts , all sorts of paraphernalia .
Kweskin is telling his story .
Laughter from all of them .
Then , there ' s a sharp , rhythmic series of Raps on the side door , a signal .
Pope quickly slides the door open .
It ' s Jeffrey . grinning .
Three other activists , Goines , Ichioka , and Bruhns , stagger out of the darkness behind Jeffrey , lugging a huge , squirming Garbage Bag .
The van occupants react with murmurs of " Awwwwwright " and " Far out , then they help maneuver the writhing bag into the van .
Then , Jeffrey and the other three scramble in , too .
The Pest Control Van lumbers up a ramp and onto the freeway .
The Garbage Bag squirms and grunts as Jeffrey holds a map under a flashlight and goes over " the plan " with the other Activists .
A loud Groan from the bag distracts the others .
Shrugging cheerfully , Jeffrey tears open the garbage bag revealing Dr . Mason , trussed up , duct tape covering his eyes and mouth .
Grinning wickedly , Jeffrey rips the tape from his father ' s mouth .
Jeffrey puts his finger to his lips , silencing everyone .
Jeffrey raises his eyebrows .
This he hadn ' t expected .
The Activists are all exchanging puzzled looks .
Spooky Bernard Herrman Music , giant redwoods looming skyward .
It ' s Daytime in Muir Woods .
Scotty And Madeline .
redwood tree .
We ' re watching Hitchcock ' s Vertigo .
They look at the lines of the tree marked with cards that say , " 1066 - Battle Of Hastings , and " 1930 Tree Cut Down .
Angle On The Theater Audience , empty seats dimly visible in the flickering light , a few shadowy Moviegoers scattered here and there .
Angle On The Screen , Madeline pointing , saying with profound melancholy .
Angle On The Audience , a shadowy Couple near the back of the theater .
We Can ' T Really See Them , but we recognize their Voices .
The theater is briefly illuminated by a very bright scene on the screen , revealing enough of Cole and Railly for us to see she ' s doing something to his upper lip while he tries to watch the movie .
From the darkness , a Movie Patron makes a Sssshhhhh should .
She ' s pulling something from a shopping bag at her feet , placing it on Cole ' S head , adjusting it .
There are tears in her eyes .
They discomfit Cole .
Angle On The Screen , where Scotty and Madeline are in the foreground , the Ocean behind them .
Close On A Gorilla , by moonlight , angry , a true nightmare vision .
Urgent Whispers off screen , Rustling Sounds .
Then , Metal On Metal .
Only now are we aware that the Gorilla is in an outdoor zoo pen with phony rocks .
Stalking back and forth .
Huge .
Upset .
Clank .
Clank .
Metal On Metal .
Grunts of effort , then , Dr . Mason ' S Voice , plaintive , frightened .
The Gorilla bellows angrily , beating his chest .
Under the full moon , Panthers pace back and forth , back and forth , uttering ominous guttural Snarls .
The King Of Beasts gives a deep , fierce Roar .
From the darkness , unseen Elephants Trumpet their response .
A Pandemonium of Wings Rustling , the sharp metallic Clinking of metal on metal , the Mutter of Human Voices , then a cacophonous Crescendo of frenzied Screeching as Parrots , Cockatoos and other Exotic Birds careen madly in their cages .
Close On Cole , dozing fitfully , as the Sounds of Screaming Birds continue .
Suddenly , he comes awake with a start . sees the movie filling his field of vision .
His Pov : the Movie Screen .
Tippi Hedrin , overwhelmed by screeching Birds in an attic in Hitchcock ' s The Birds .
Angle On Cole , orienting himself , looking around .
Empty seats on both sides of him .
He ' s alone .
He panics .
A lobby poster boasts " Classics 24 Hours A Day " and " Hitchcock Festival .
Panning Off the poster , passing a Snoring Usher , dead to the world in an old velvet chair , We Discover a Brunette in a tight dress , just hanging up the lobby pay phone .
Turning , she reveals heavy make - up , gaudy costume jewelry , and sun glasses .
She ' s the Brunette in Cole ' S Dream !
Crossing the lobby toward the auditorium , it ' s a pleasure to watch her nice body undulate in the tight dress .
Just then , the auditorium doors burst open and a Blonde Man in a Hawaiian shirt appears , the man from Cole ' S Dream , except this man ' s moustache is fixed firmly on his upper lip .
The Blonde Man stops , stunned at the sight of the Brunette .
The Brunette is Railly , no longer the frazzled professional , revealed now by her disguise as a sexy babe .
The Blonde Man is Cole !
He ' s confused .
Their eyes lock .
Suddenly , she backs up , gently maneuvering him with her , past the sleeping Usher , to and through an unlocked , unmarked door , then closing it behind them .
Railly and Cole are in a dimly lit cluttered storage room .
She kisses him hungrily amid the brooms , plastic trash barrels , other janitorial items .
Cole responds to her passion as they move deeper into the room , its walls covered with old movie posters .
Tearing at each other ' s clothes , they collapse on a rolled theater curtain among stacks of ancient theater seats .
The red rim of the rising sun is just becoming visible beyond the silhouetted roofs of an upper middle - class suburban neighborhood .
The early light is so vague that when a huge Siberian Tiger pads across a neatly - trimmed lawn , he ' s more a shadowy vision than reality .
Did we really see him at all ?
The rising sun flares behind the towering silhouette of an unfinished building , deserted in the early morning light .
High up , a Monkey his head around a girder .
Four stories below , other Monkeys are climbing .
Deserted in the first light of dawn , the stores face each other across a broad promenade with blank staring windows .
Nothing happens .
For a long moment .
Then , an African Bull Elephant appears , turning the corner , lumbering toward us along the promenade , raising his trunk to Trumpet triumphantly to the other Elephants trotting into view behind him .
A fiftyish Woman Cabbie with white hair and a Southern twang is at the wheel of the cab .
In the back seat , Cole , in the blonde wig and moustache , looks to his companion , the sexy babe in sun glasses and heavy make - up , Railly .
Cole and Railly exchange a quick look .
Railly and Cole stare at the cabbie , stunned .
Flabbergasted , Railly ' S eyes suddenly fill with hope .
As the Woman Caebie switches on the Radio , Ra : Lly points and Cole follows her look .
Cole ' S Pov : two Cheetahs , sleek and magnificent against the cityscape , streaking past the cab at ninety mph !
Railly and Cole are watching Flamingos cross the sky against a backdrop of skyscrapers in silhouette .
Closy On copies of the mug shot of Cole and a photo of Railly while the airport P . A . System Drones in the b . g . Reveal a Detective , giving the flyers to the uniformed Supervisor at one end of the ticket counter .
Angle On Railly And Cole , thirty yards away , entering the terminal .
Angle On Cole , reacting to the P . A , stopping , seeing the bustling airport lobby .
But Cole isn ' t listening .
He ' s looking around , mesmerized .
Railly glances around nervously .
Railly ' S Pov : two Uniformed Policemen , strolling through the lobby , their eyes scanning the faces of Travelers .
Angle On Railly , pulling a small tube from her purse .
Cole follows her look , nods , then heads for the Men ' s Room as Railly , in sun glasses , gaudy outfit , high heels , starts clip clopping toward the ticket counter , her ass attracting admiring glances .
Business Travelers huddle over pay phones , talking earnestly , as Cole walks past on his way to the Men ' s Room .
Seeing an unoccupied phone , Cole hesitates , considers it .
Coming to a decision , he reaches into his pocket , pulls out some change .
Close On the flyer of Cole and Railly taped under the counter , hidden from the customers , but in clear view of the Ticket Agent who has just finished serving a Portly Gentleman .
The Gentleman walks away .
Angle On Railly , stepping up to the counter , smiling , looking nothing like the Railly on the flyer .
Cole is speaking into the phone very low , very private , very intense .
Cole looks around nervously , catches a Businessman at the next phone looking away quickly .
Cole touches his loose moustache as he averts his face and speaks into the phone in an urgent whisper .
Cole hangs up the phone , looks around , catches a few stares .
Averting his face , he heads for the Men ' s Room .
The Ticket Agent is counting out a stack of bills .
Turning to go , Railly fumbles the tickets while trying to put them in her purse and they flutter to the floor .
As she kneels to retrieve them , We See the long line of waiting Travelers from the waist down .
We See a familiar Chicago Bulls Sports Bag resting on the floor beside sneakers and gaudy baggy pants .
we ' ve seen this outfit before . in Cole ' S dream . on Mr .
Ponytail !
The P . A . Drones as Ccle , head down , lingers at a sink , washing and rewashing his hands while another Traveler finishes drying his hands , gives Cole a quizzical look , then leaves .
Quickly , Cole glances around , checks the seemingly empty Men ' s Room , then takes the tube of adhesive from his pocket , puts some goop under the loose edge of his moustache and presses it firmly against his face as he leans close to the mirror .
Cole whirls , looks for the source of the Voice .
Nothing !
Until he spots shoes peeking from dropped trousers indicating an occupied stall .
It must be him !
A toilet Flushes in the " occupied " stall .
Cole ' S answer is loud and defiant .
A Plump Businessman emerges from the " occupied " stall , gives Cole a wary look and a wide berth as he heads for a sink .
Cole looks dismayed .
This guy couldn ' t be " The Voice !
And there are no feet showing under the other stalls .
Did he imagine it ?
The Chicago Bulls bag !
It ' s on the counter in front of the Ticket Agent who ' s reviewing a stack of tickets in awe .
Cole emerges from the Men ' s Room , shaken , paranoid .
He glances around nervously .
Then , keeping his head down , he starts walking toward the Gift Shop .
Before he gets more than a few steps , someone suddenly grabs his shoulder from behind .
Cole whirls , finds himself facing a Puerto Rican youth in an L . A . Raiders jacket , a sideways baseball cap , and mirrored sun glasses .
Jose tries to slip Cole a 9mm pistol .
Astonished , Cole resists !
Frustrated , Jose conceals the gun but keeps a grip on Cole ' S arm .
Railly takes a travel book on Key West from a rack , considers it , includes it with several magazines she ' s holding .
She doesn ' t notice Mr .
Ponytazl enter the Gift Shop behind her !
The P . A . System Drones flight info as Railly checks her watch and frowns .
It ' s getting late and where ' s Cole ?
She turns , heads for the cash register to make her purchases .
Mr . Ponytail , seen from behind , is at the cash register already .
He sets a newspaper on the counter and searches for change .
The paper features a banner headline .
" Animals Set Free " and a sub head .
" Prominent Scientist Found Locked In Gorilla Cage " over a photo of Dr . Mason being released from the cage and another photo of a Gorilla perched atop a parked car .
Stepping in line behind Mr .
Ponytail , Railly checks her watch again .
Then , Mr . Ponytail , having paid , turns to go and Railly looks up and sees his face .
though it is not visible to us .
Startled , Railly frowns .
Does she know this man ?
Mr .
Ponytail pauses for a moment , considering the babe in the shades , gaudy earrings , the tight skirt , and high heels .
Railly doesn ' t recognize the man , but we do !
He ' s
Dr . Mason ' S Assistant , Dr . Peters .
the man who attended Railly ' s lecture !
Smiling , Dr .
Peters steps around Railly and exits the Gift Shop .
Still puzzled , Railly puts her purchases on the counter and the Clerk starts ringing them up as a Delivery Man comes in and drops a bundle of newspapers at her feet .
Railly ' S Pov : the front page shows a photo of three frightened Giraffes in freeway gridlock under a headline proclaiming , " Terrorists Create Chaos .
Further down are two more photos . Dr . Mason in the gorilla cage and a file photo of Dr . Mason in his lab .
Close On The Shot Of Dr . Mason in his lab .
There ' s someone else in the picture .
It ' s a man wearing a lab coat and a Ponytail !
Angle On Railly , reacting , suddenly remembering !
Railly looks up from the book she ' s signing and sees Dr . Peters .
Railly , stunned , stares in the direction Peters / Ponytail went .
In the confusion of Travelers streaming in different directions , Cole hurries toward the Gift Shop while Jose struggles to keep up .
Cole stops in his tracks , blown away , too stunned to speak .
Cole accepts the gun this time , resigned now .
They ' ve got him .
Just then , Railly rushes up to Cole , not even noticing Jose .
Jose , having heard this , steps back into the crowd as Railly grabs Cole and pulls him toward the Security Check Points .
She doesn ' t hear him or see the look of doom in his eyes .
A young boy of nine passes through the magnetic arch grinning .
Young Cole !
Exactly as he appears in the dream !
He joins his Parents , who are only visible from their chests down , and they continue along the concourse .
We Linger and Discover two Detectives watching Travelers as they pass through the magnetic arch and retrieve their bags from the X - ray machine , comparing their faces to photos of Cole and Railly .
Angle On A Security Officer , watching the x - ray monitor .
Angle On The Monitor , showing the X - Ray Image of a sports bag moving along the conveyer belt .
The bag contains some strange objects .
Angle On The Security Officer , reacting .
Angle On Dr .
Peters , coming through the magnetic arch , reacting .
Railly And Cole arrive at the very long suddenly stalled line of Travelers waiting to pass through security .
Angle On The Security Check Point , where Dr .
Peters unpacks his Bulls bag , pulls out six metal cylinders along with a change of clothes and a Walkman .
Dr .
Peters produces a sheaf of official papers while the Security Officer examines one of the tubes , turning it over in his hands .
Dr .
Peters takes the metal cylinder and starts opening it .
There ' s a Sound of Voices Raised behind them .
Dr .
Peters pays no attention , but the Security Officer turns toward the Noise .
Security Officer ' S Pov : Railly , trying to explain something to a Angle On The Two Detectives , nearby , showing interest in the commotion .
Angle On Dr .
Peters , oblivious to the fuss , pulling a closed glass tube out of the metal cylinder .
Indeed , it looks like a sealed clear glass tube with nothing in it .
Angle On Railly , at the end of the line , arguing with the Second Angle On Dr . Peters , producing the glass tubes from the other metal cylinders as the Security Officer examines the papers .
A beat .
Or .
Peters grins suddenly , opens one of the glass tubes , and waves it under the Security Officer ' S nose !
The Security Officer glances up , sees what Dr . Peters is doing , and smiles as he hands the papers back to the scientist .
Hastily , Dr .
Peters snatches up all the tubes and cylinders and shoves them back into his gym bag .
Angle On Railly , raging as the Second Security Officer jabs her with his finger .
The Second Security Officer stiffens for trouble .
Angle On The Detectives , watching the fuss , ready to get involved .
Suddenly , the First Detective frowns .
First Detective9s Pov :
Cole ' S moustache is slipping .
Cole senses it , reaches up to touch it , catches the Detective ' S look .
For half a second their eyes meet , then Cole looks away .
Angle On Dr . Peters , hurrying away .
Dr .
Peters freezes , turns , ashen .
The Security Officer is retrieving a pair of jockey shorts from the floor beside the search table .
He waves them at Dr . Peters .
Dr .
Peters hurries back for his underpants .
Angle On Cole , trying to keep his head turned away as he confronts the Security Officer .
Railly looks alarmed at that .
Angle On The Detectives , coming this way .
The First Detective has the photos in his hand .
Angle Ow Dr . Peters , bagging his jockey shorts , then starting hastily down the windowed concourse toward the gates .
Angle On Razzly , suddenly spotting Dr . Peters !
Angle On Cole , following Railly ' S look , seeing Mr .
Ponytail , The Angle On Dr . Peters , frightened , glancing back , walking faster .
Angle On Detectives , reaching Railly and Cole .
Angle On Cole , spotting something behind the Detectives !
Cole ' S Pov : Scarface , dressed like a " businessman !
He gives Cole a cold look .
A beat .
Cole lunges at the Second Detective , knocking him off balance , then sprints toward the magnetic arch and through it .
The Alarm goes off !
The First Security Officer tries to stop Cole , but Cole knocks him aside like a rag doll .
Angle On Dr .
Peters , fifty yards up the concourse , glancing back .
Angle On Cole , pulling his pistol .
Angle On The First Detective , raising his pistol at Cole .
Angle On Cole , gun in hand , sprinting along the concourse toward Dr .
Peters as frightened Travelers Scream and dive for cover .
Angle On Young Cole , standing at a concourse window , watching a plane land , flanked by his parents whose faces we don ' t see .
Young Cole who , hearing the commotion , turns just as Dr .
Peters hurries by .
Dr .
Peters bumps into Young Cole and reacts by pulling his Bulls bag close to his body and calling .
Angle On Young Cole , wide eyed , watching .
Young Cole ' S Pov : a Blonde Man .
dashing up the concourse , his moustache slipping over his lip , a pistol in his hand .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the First Detective aims , looking for a clear shot in the crowded passageway .
Young Cole ' S Pov : a Brunette in flashy clothes , gaudy earrings , high heels , and sun glasses Screams .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the First Detective , firing !
Crack !
Young Cole ' S Pov : the Blonde Man , shuddering , staggering , falling .
Angle On Young Cole , stunned , as his Parents try to shield him .
Mesmerized , Young Cole watches the Brunette rush to the Blonde Man , kneel beside him , minister to his bloody wound .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the Blonde Man , fatalistically reaching up and tenderly touching the Brunette ' S cheek , touching her tears .
Angle On Young Cole , not able to hear their words , but he can see emotion as the Blonde Man tries to tell the sobbing Brunette something .
Young Cole ' S Pov : Paramedics , breaking the spell , pushing the Brunette aside as they crouch beside the Blonde Man .
Angle On Young Cole , as his Father ' S Arm drapes over his shoulder , steering him .
Young Cole turns to look back as he ' s led away .
Young Cole ' S Pov : the Paramedics , exchanging glances , shrugging helplessly .
It ' s too late .
The Blonde Man is dead .
Young Cole sees the Brunette , her face streaked with tears , suddenly turn and look around , scanning the crowd , searching for something .
Police Officers approach her , say something to her .
Even as she responds , her eyes continue to scan the concourse .
Angle On Young Cole , being hurried toward the lobby by his Parents .
He can ' t help sneaking another look back .
Young Cole ' S Pov : Police , handcuffing a distracted , unresisting Railly .
Even now , she continues to look around almost frantically .
Suddenly , her gaze falls on Young Cole and she reacts .
she ' s found what she ' s looking for !
Angle On Young Cole , reacting to the intensity of her look .
Angle On Railly , her eyes speaking to the boy across the crowded concourse .
Angle On Young Cole , overwhelmed by the look .
With a last lingering look toward the mysterious Brunette , Young Cole turns away , tears welling in his eyes .
We Move In . Close .
Close . Closer . on his eyes .
We Want To Know What The Tear Means , Dr .
Peters closes the door to the overhead luggage rack containing his Chicago Bulls bag and takes his seat .
Next to him , a Fellow Traveler , unseen , says .
Close On Dr . Peters , smiling affably , turning to his neighbor .
Dr .
Peters ' Pov : the Fellow Traveler , a silver haired gentleman in a business suit , offering his hand congenially .
Dr .
Peters doesn ' t know who this man is , but we do .
It ' s the Astrophysicist !
As Young Cole ' S Parents usher Young Cole into their station wagon , the boy hesitates , looks back , watches a 747 climb into the sky .
