Revision November 12, 1997 Welcome to Padua High School,, your typical urban-suburban high school in Portland, Oregon.  
Smarties, Skids, Preppies, Granolas.
Loners, Lovers, the In and the Out Crowd rub sleep out of their eyes and head for the main building.
KAT STRATFORD, eighteen, pretty -- but trying hard not to be -- in a baggy granny dress and glasses, balances a cup of coffee and a backpack as she climbs out of her battered, baby blue '75 Dodge Dart.
A stray SKATEBOARD clips her, causing her to stumble and spill her coffee, as well as the contents of her backpack.
The young RIDER dashes over to help, trembling when he sees who his board has hit.
Cowering in fear, he attempts to scoop up her scattered belongings.
He persists.
She grabs his skateboard and uses it to SHOVE him against a car, skateboard tip to his throat.  
He whimpers pitifully and she lets him go.  
A path clears for her as she marches through a pack of fearful students and SLAMS open the door, entering school.
BIANCA STRATFORD, a beautiful sophomore, stands facing the mirror, applying lipstick.  
Her less extraordinary, but still cute friend, CHASTITY stands next to her.
Leave the girls' room and enter the hallway.
Bianca is immediately greeted by an admiring crowd, both boys and girls alike.
The greetings continue as Chastity remains wordless and unaddressed by her side.  
Bianca smiles proudly, acknowledging her fans.
CAMERON JAMES, a clean-cut, easy-going senior with an open, farm-boy face, sits facing Miss Perky, an impossibly cheery guidance counselor.
Her plastic smile never leaves her face.  
Cameron fidgets in his chair uncomfortably.
Cameron rises to leave and makes eye contact with PATRICK VERONA, a sullen-looking bad ass senior who waits outside Ms Perky's door.  
His slouch and smirk let us know how cool he is.
Miss Perky looks down at her file and up at Patrick.
She gives him a withering glance.
He answers with a charming smile.
She motions for Patrick to enter her office and Cameron shuffles out the door, bumping into MICHAEL ECKMAN, a lanky, brainy senior who will either end up a politician or game show host.
They head out of the office.
Prom posters adorn the wall.
Michael steers Cameron through the crowd as he points to various cliques.
The beautiful people pass, in full jock/cheerleader splendor.
Several Stetson-wearing, big belt buckle.
Wrangler guys walk by.
They pass an espresso cart with a group of teens huddled around it.
Michael continues the tour.
Several white boys in dreadlocks and Jamaican knit berets lounge on the grass.  
A cloud of pot smoke hovers above them.
Michael waves to DEREK, the one with the longest dreads.
Cameron turns to follow Michael as they walk into the cafeteria.
Loud music and loud students.  
Michael sits with a group of studious-looking teens.
He points to the table of jocks, as they torture various passers-by.
He points proudly to the ALLIGATOR on his shirt.
Cameron stops listening as BIANCA walks by, and we go SLO MO.  
Pure and perfect, she passes Cameron and Michael without a look.
Cameron is smitten.
A room full of bored seniors doodle and scare off into space MS. BLAISE, the one-step-away-from-medication English Teacher, tries to remember what she's talking about.
Kat, the girl we saw as we entered the school, slowly cakes off her glasses and speaks up.
The other students roll their eyes.
JOEY DORSEY, a well-muscled jock with great cheekbones, makes fun of her from his row.
A few giggles.  
Kat ignores him.  
A practiced gesture.
Really gets fired up now.
She looks up at Ms. Blaise, who is now fighting with her pill box.
Patrick, lounging in his seat in the back row, elbows a crusty-looking crony, identified by the name SCURVY, embroidered on his workshirt.
The class titters.  
Kat wears an expression of intolerance Kat now sits before Miss Perky.
Kat smiles at her, daring her to say it.
She grimaces, as if she's referring to a medical condition.
Kat rises from her chair with a plastic smile matching the counselor's.
Bianca ignores the droning teacher as she writes a note in big flowing handwriting.
Bianca folds the note and passes it behind her with a flip of her hair to CHASTITY.  
Chastity opens the note and reads: Chastity frowns to herself.
Bianca looks up and smiles the smile of Daddy's little girl.
The teacher shakes her head, but lets it go.
MANDELLA.
a waif-like senior girl who sits off to the side trying to slit her wrist with the plastic spiral on her notebook, looks up and raises her hand.
She raises a challenging eyebrow.  
The stunned teacher doesn't answer and goes to call on the next student.
Mandella and Kat sit down in the quiet corner.
They are eating a carton of yogurt with gusto.
Your sister is so amazingly without.  
She'll never read him.
She has no idea.
Kat attacks.
Kat's attention is caught by Patrick as he walks by with his friends, lighting up a cigarette.  
Mandella notices her staring.
Kat turns back to face Mandella and forces her yogurt into Mandella's hand.
She eats.  
Kat sees her wrist.
Kat stares at her, expressionless.
Thinks a minute.
Mandella's attention is struck by Bianca As she and Chastity parade by Joey and his COHORTS   One of the cohorts elbows Joey.
Joey looks up and smiles at Bianca.
Bianca smiles her coyest of smiles.
BACK TO KAT AND MANDELLA Still watching.
Doesn't respond Michael and Cameron observe Joey's leers at Bianca from their bench in another corner.
Cowboys eating cue of a can of beans linger on the grass behind them.
The BELL rings, and the cowboys stand and spit into their empty bean cans.   
Cameron and Michael rise as Cameron tries to catch a glimpse of Bianca as she walks back inside.
Cameron watches as Bianca flounces back into the building.
Kat and Mandella walk toward Kat's car.  
Joey pulls up beside her in his Viper.
He zooms away as Kat yanks open the door of her Dart.
Mandella ties a silk scarf around her head, as if they're in a convertible.
They watch Joey's car as he slows next to Bianca and Chastity as they walk toward the school bus.
Bianca and Chastity can't get in Joey's car fast enough.  
He pulls away with a smile.
Mandella lowers her sunglasses to watch.
Kat doesn't answer, but reaches over and puts a tape in the tape deck.  
The sounds of JOYFUL PUNK ROCK fill the car.
As they pull out, Michael crosses in front of them on his moped.
Kat has to SLAM the brakes to keep from hitting him.
Michael begins fearfully, pedaling as Kat PEELS out, angry at the delay.
Cameron rushes over.
He slows to a stop.
Michael putters off, leaving Cameron dodging Patrick's grimy, grey Jeep -- a vehicle several years and many paint jobs away from its former glory as a REGULATION MAIL TRUCK - - as he sideswipes several cars on his way out of the lot.
SHARON STRATFORD, attractive and focused, sits in front of her computer, typing quickly.   
A shelf next to her holds several bodice-ripper romance novels, bearing her name.
Kat stands behind her, reading over her shoulder as she types.
WALTER STRATFORD, a blustery, mad scientist-type obstetrician, enters through the front door, wearing a doctor's white jacket and carrying his black bag.
I hope dinner's ready because I only have ten minutes before Mrs. Johnson squirts out a screamer.
He grabs the mail and rifles through it, as he bends down to kiss Sharon on the cheek.
Bianca walks in.
She kisses him on the cheek.
Walter kisses Bianca back as Kat heads up the stairs.
Walter holds up a letter to Kat.
Snatches it away from him.
Sharon looks up from her computer.
Kat gives Bianca an evil look then smiles sweetly at.
Bianca glares at Kat then turns to Walter.
He pulls out a small tape recorder from his black bag.
He hits the "play' button and SHRIEKS OF PAIN emanate from the tape recorder.
His BEEPER goes off and he grabs his bag again.
Cameron sits with an empty chair beside him.  
Bianca arrives in a flurry of blonde hair.
Not the hacking and gagging and spitting part.  
Please.
Bianca smiles slowly.
Bianca seizes an opportunity.
She fingers a lock of her hair.  
He looks on, dazzled.
The problem is, she's completely anti-social.
She reaches out and touches his arm.
Cameron smiles, having no idea how stupid he is A frog is being torn asunder by several prongs and picks.
Michael and Cameron go for the spleen.
Cameron grins away.
Cameron motions with his head toward Patrick, a few lab tables away.  
He's wearing biker glasses instead of goggles as he tries to revive his frog.
The others at the lab table raise their eyebrows.
Michael smiles.  
Liking the intrigue.
Michael processes this.
A cowboy flicks the frog's heart into one of the Coffee Kid's latte.  
Cameron presses on, over the melee.
He points to Patrick, who now makes his frog hump another frog, with full-on sound effects.
Boys and a few stray girls nail their pieces of wood Michael sits next to PEPE, a Coffee Kid, who holds out his jacket like the men who sell watches in the subway.  
Inside several bags of coffee hang from hooks.
Michael nods solemnly.
Patrick sits at a table with Scurvy, making something that looks like a machete out of a two-by-four.
Cameron approaches, full of good-natured farm boy cheer.
In response, Patrick brandishes a loud POWER TOOL in his direction.
Cameron slinks away.
Michael watches, shaking his head.
Joey and his pals take turns drawing boobs onto a cafeteria tray with a magic marker.
Michael walks up and sits between them, casual as can be.
He grabs Michael by the side of the head, and proceeds to draw a penis on his cheek with the magic marker.   
Michael suffers the indignity and speaks undaunted.
Joey sits back and cackles at his drawing.
Michael points to Patrick, who makes a disgusted face at his turkey pot pie before he rises and throws it at the garbage can, rather than in it.
That guy?  
I heard he ate a live duck once.  
Everything but the beak and the feet.
Joey turns to look at Michael.
What's in it for you?
He rises to leave and turns to the others.
Michael stands at the sink, trying to scrub Joey's artwork off his face as Cameron watches.
Cameron grins and puts an arm around him.
Michael pulls back, noticing other guys filing in.
Hey - I appreciate gratitude as much as the next guy, but it's not gonna do you any good to be known as New Kid Who Embraces Guys In The Bathroom.
Cameron pulls back and attempts to posture himself in a manly way for the others, now watching.
Kat and Mandella pick apart their pad thai.  
Mandella is smoking.
Mandella replies with a look of ice.  
Kat uses the moment to stub out Mandella's cigarette.
They both look up as Patrick enters.  
He walks up to the counter to place his order.
Mandella leans toward Kat with the glow of fresh gossip.
Patrick nods at them as he takes his food outside.
Patrick sits before Miss Perky, eating his Thai food.
He smiles his charming smile.
She tolerates his comment with her withering glance.
The bell RINGS.
Several pairs of tutors and students sit at the various desks.
Mandella sits with TREVOR, a White Rasta.  
She attempts to get him to do geometry, but he stares at her, as if smitten.
Mandella sets down her pencil and closes the book.
ACROSS THE ROOM Bianca and Cameron sit side by side, cozy as can be.
She shuts her book and puts on a seductive smile.
Bianca's eyes light up.
Cameron and Bianca lean against the wall -inconspicuously.
Bianca plays it cool.
The bell RINGS.  
Kids flood past.  
Then Patrick saunters by with Scurvy.  
Cameron nudges Bianca.
Out of desperation, Cameron awkwardly lunges across Patrick's path.  
Patrick shoves him back against the wall without a thought.  
Cameron lands in a THUD at Bianca's feet.
Bianca watches Patrick, a wicked gleam in  her eye.
Several volleyball games are being played.
Joey and a member of his hulking entourage, approach Patrick, who still manages to look cool, even in gym clothes.  
They pull him aside roughly.
Joey points JOEY See that girl?
Patrick follows his line of vision to Kat as she spikes the ball into some poor cowboy's face.
Kat wins the game and high fives the others, who are scared of her.
Patrick stares at Joey deadpan.  
His dislike for the guy obvious.
Joey smiles.
Twenty bucks each time you take her out.
Patrick raises an eyebrow, urging him up.
Patrick walks away with a smile Kat and the rest of the team go through a grueling practice session.  
Kat spares no one as she whips the ball all over the field.
Patrick sits on the bleachers nearby, watching.  
A cigarette dangles from his mouth.  
His pal, SCURVY is next to him.
MR.
CHAPIN, the coach, blows the WHISTLE.
Kat nods in response, and the girls leave the field.
Patrick hops down to follow.
Kat stops and turns slowly to look at him.
She stands there undaunted, hand on hip.
Patrick's eyes narrow.  
He steps closer.
PATRICK backs up a little.  
He uses his most seductive tone.
Kat stares at him.
She walks away quickly, leaving him standing alone.
Scurvy appears at his side.
ACROSS THE FIELD Cameron and Michael watch.
Kat washes her face at the sink.  
Bianca appears behind her, and attempts to twist Kat's hair into a chignon.
She wacks Bianca away.
Kat pushes past her into the hallway.
Kat SLAMS her door in response.
Patrick, Scurvy and some other randoms head for the exit SCURVY You up for a burger?
Patrick looks in his wallet.  
It's empty.
Kat stands at her locker, gathering her books.  
Patrick appears at her side, smiling.
Kat doesn't answer.
She slams her locker shut and walks away Kat emerges from a music store carrying a bag of CDs in  her teeth, and fumbling through her purse with both hands.  
She finds her keys and pulls them out with a triumphant tug.
She looks up and finds Patrick sitting on the hood of her car.
Kat takes the bag out of her mouth.
She gets in and starts the car.
She starts to pull out, and is blocked by Joey's Viper, which pulls up perpendicular to her rear and parks.
Joey and his groupies emerge and head for the liquor store.
They continue on into the store.  
Kat stares at them in disbelief...
Then BACKS UP Her vintage fenders CRASH into the door of Joey's precious Viper.
Patrick watches with a delighted grin Joey races out of the liquor store.
Kat pulls forward and backs into his car again.  
Smiling sweetly.
Walter paces as Kat sits calmly on the couch.
Walter's BEEPER goes off.
He walks out, leaving Kat stewing on the couch.
Patrick shuts his graffiti-encrusted locker, revealing Joey's angry visage, glowering next to him.
Joey sees through the bluff.
Joey starts to walk off.
Joey thinks for a frustrated moment, PUNCHES  the locker, then peels another fifty out of his wallet with a  menacing scowl.
Patrick takes the money with a smile.
Cameron runs a sentence past Bianca.
Bianca glares at him.
Cameron closes the French book.
He melts.
She touches his hand.
He blushes at her praise and watches her toss her hair back.
Cameron nods with interest.
Bianca looks surprised.
Patrick stands at the sink, washing his hands Michael and Cameron cower in the corner, watching him.
Cameron bravely steps forward.
Patrick turns toward them.
Cameron starts to object, but Michael holds up a hand.
Cameron starts choking at the thought of Joey plowing his beloved Bianca.
Patrick smiles.  
He likes the idea of Joey being a pawn in this game.
He swings the door open and exits, leaving Michael and Cameron grinning at each other.
CU on a party invitation as it gets handed out.  
"Future Princeton Grad Bogey Lowenstein proudly presents a Saturday night bash at his abode.  
Casual attire".
Michael holds the invitation up to Cameron.
Michael hands a jock the party invite as they pass each other at the trash cans.
The jock calls a fellow jock Jock whispers to a cheerleader The cheerleader calls a White Rasta that she's making out with, showing him the invite.
The White Rasta tells a cowboy as they run laps during track practice.
The cowboy Cells a Coffee Kid, as he shields his java from the spray of the shower.
Joey stands ac his open locker with Bianca.  
The locker is an homage to Joey's "modeling" career.  
Cheesy PRINT ADS of him -- running in a field of daisies, petting a kitten, etc. -- adorn the locker door.
INSERT - HEADSHOTS of Joey.  
In one, he's pouting in a white shirt.  
In the other, he's pouting in a black shirt.
Joey nods thoughtfully.
He gives her his best flirtatious smile.
He taps her on the nose and she giggles Bianca sits across from Cameron, who's transfixed, as always.
He fishes.
Cameron furiously takes notes.
Patrick plays pool with some random deviant cronies.
He looks up when he hears a COMMOTION at the door.  
LOU the bouncer is in the midst of throwing Michael and Cameron out.
Lou looks at Patrick, surprised, then reluctantly lets our two non-deviants pass through.
Patrick guides them to a table and sips from a beer.
Cameron pulls out a piece of paper.
One question before we start -- should you be drinking alcohol when you don't have a liver?
Cameron looks up at Patrick.
Patrick sits up.
This is met with silence.  
Then:.
Michael smacks Cameron.
Cameron goes back to the list.
Patrick groans.
He hands it over.
Michael puts a finger to his lips.
He looks down at the list of CDs.
MUSIC BLARES in a room with minimalist decor splashed with indie rock band posters and flyers.
Kat and Mandella dance as they dress and apply make-up Bianca enters, interrupting their fun.
Kat doesn't move, so Bianca crosses to the stereo, turning down the volume.
Kat shoots her a glare.
She smiles sweetly and shuts the door behind her.   
Kat doesn't bat an eye.  
She grabs her purse and opens the door.
A happy black and white neon skunk sprays fine mist on the line of kids below.
Kat and Mandella walk in, Mandella nervously pulling out her fake ID.  
The giant, afroed bouncer, BRUCE, looks typically mono-syllabic.
They approach Bruce.  
Kat puts on her happy, shiny face.
Bruce looks the girls up and down.
He looks at their IDs.
Mandella gently moves Kat aside, wearing a face that could only be described as "I AM a Victoria's Secret model.".
She sticks out her chest and licks her lips.  
Bruce stares at her deadpan and hands her back the IDs.
Mandella winks at him and sashays inside   Kat: follows behind, shaking her head.
Patrick's mail truck clatters to a stop out front.
Patrick walks up to Bruce, who's frisking a badly mowhawked PIERCED EYEBROW BOY.  
Bruce pulls a SWITCHBLADE out of the boy's inside pocket.
Bruce pushes him inside the club, then sees Patrick.
They shake.
Patrick starts to go in.
Patrick laughs and goes into the club Onstage, the all-female band GIGGLEPUSS is parlaying their bad girl sass into a ripping punk number.
Near the stage is a joyful mass of pogo-ing teens AT THE BAR Patrick bellies up and looks around the club.
Gigglepuss finishes a song.
A teenage boy in the audience takes the opportunity to scream.
They rev into their next song.
Mandella and Kat glow with sweat.  
When they hear the opening chords of the song, they look at each other and scream with glee as they begin to dance.  
They couldn't be having a better time.
Patrick signals to get the bartender's attention and looks across the bouncing surge of the crowd.  
He spots Kat and Mandella singing along.
The gleeful Kat -- dancing and looking completely at ease.
None of her usual "attitude".  
Patrick is transfixed.  
And most definitely attracted.
NEAR THE STAGE Kat looks at Mandella.
She makes her way through the crowd to the bar.
AT THE BAR She made it.  
She signals for the bartender and as she's waiting, looks around.  
She spots Patrick a few feet away.
She sneaks a glance.  
He's staring, but this time he looks away before she can.  
Despite herself, she's miffed.
The bartender arrives She looks at Patrick again.  
He's completely absorbed in the band.  
She scowls.  
The bottled water arrives and she marches off, forgetting to pay.
She walks up to Patrick.
Patrick looks at her, surprised.
If you're planning on asking me out you might as well get it over with.
Kat steams.  
And watches him watch the band.
The band takes a break, so they can stop yelling now.
He leans back, making no attempt to hit on her.  
She moves closer.
He motions toward the stage.
She's completely taken aback.  
He uses the moment to his advantage and brushes her hair back as he speaks right into her ear.
Kat steps away, brushing the hair back that he just touched Her cheeks pinken.
His cocky side is back in a flash.
At that moment, the band starts another SONG.
The bartender approaches.
He tosses some bills on the bar Rather than thank him, Kat simply watches him, trying to figure out his motive.
A few people have gotten between them at the bar and she can't hear a word he's saying.  
She gives him one last look and heads back into the crowd.
Patrick smiles.  
She didn't say no this time.
The crowd files out of the club, Kat and Mandella amongst them.  
A^ they're walking toward the parking lot, Patrick coasts by in his truck.  
The gears GRIND.  
He yells out the window.
Mandella watches Kat as she stares after Patrick.
Kat glances sharply at her.
Kat pokes her, then looks back at the club dreamily.
Mandella nods.
Kat links her arm through Mandella's and they head for the car.
Cameron and Michael are at Michael's locker.
Cameron looks At Michael expectantly.
Joey appears over Cameron's shoulder.
Cameron and Michael look at each other And turn around slowly.
It's incredibly obvious that he's lying.  
Joey eyes him then turns to Cameron.
Joey turns back to Michael, grabbing the alligator on his shirt and twisting it.
Joey lets go of Michael and SHOVES Cameron against a locker for good measure, as he walks away-.
Kat sits outside waiting for her appointment, bored and annoyed.
The door opens and Miss Perky escorts Patrick out.
Kat stands and Patrick sees her.
Miss Perky watches in horror You two know each other?
Miss Perky grabs Kat and shoves her into her office.
Patrick gives Kat one last look before the door shuts, then smiles-
The lights are on, illuminating the yard Bianca and Chastity stand outside Kat's room.  
MUSIC is blaring and the door is shut.  
Bianca looks at her watch.
Across the carpet, two pairs of teenage girl feet sneak past.  
Bianca and Chastity, teddy bear purses in hand.
FROM THE KITCHEN A RUSTLING is heard.  
The girls freeze.
Walter emerges from the kitchen with a mile-high sandwich The girls are like statues.  
Walter jumps.
She points to Kat -- Walkman blaring -- who comes downstairs, wearing a baby tee and battered Levis.  
Her relaxing-at-home look is about 400 times sexier than her at- school look.  
She wanders toward the kitchen.
Walter directs his attention toward Kat.
Kat shrugs as she comes back out of the kitchen with an apple.
Bianca turns to Kat, eyes ablaze.
Kat takes off her earphones, ready to do battle.
Bianca tosses her hair.
Kat stares Bianca down.
Bianca and Chastity look at each other, thrilled, and burst into gleeful screams.
A startled Walter clutches Bianca in a protective hug.
Walter looks dazed.
He rushes to a cupboard and pulls out a padded faux- pregnancy belly.
He hangs the belly on her as she stands mortified.
Scanned by http://freemoviescripts.com Formatting by http://simplyscripts.home.att.net.
Kat stomps to the door, grabbing her car keys off the hall table and a sweater from the coat rack.
She flings open the door and...
There stands Patrick.
Kat's in shock.
She holds up her keys.
He peeks in behind her.
BOGEY, a short Future MBA in a tux, greets his guests like a pro, handing out cigars and martinis.
The house is filled to capacity with Padua High's finest Kat pushes through the crowd.  
Patrick saunters in behind her Joey lines up a row of shots amid much whooping and hollering within the jock crowd.
Kat enters, then quickly tries to make an about face.  
Joey sees her and rushes over to block her, standing in the doorway.
Kat gives him a death look and then stops and points at his forehead.
He panics, whipping out a handy pocket mirror   
She's already walking away.
Kat's face shows utter hatred.
A RUCKUS sounds from the next room.
The other jocks rush to watch as two Coffee Kids splash their cupfuls on each other.
Caffeinated fists fly.  
Joey slithers away from the door to watch, giving Kat one last smirk, just as Bianca walks into the kitchen.
He puts his arm around Bianca and escorts her out.
Bianca keeps walking, ignoring Kat A GUY pouring shots hands Kat one She downs it and accepts another.
Drink up, sister.
Patrick walks up.
She downs another.
Cameron and Michael enter.  
Cameron looks, around for his beloved, while Michael schmoozee with all in attendance and dishes dirt simultaneously.
Cameron nods intently.
Michael spots Bianca and Chastity, watching the skirmish, and points Cameron's body in her direction.
ON BIANCA AND CHASTITY Bianca cranes her neck.
Cameron walks over.
Bianca turns and graces him with a pained smile.
Bianca ignores the question and tries to pawn him off.
Bianca gives him a tense smile.
He heads for the kitchen.  
Joey walks up and grabs her around the waist.
She giggles as he picks her up and carries her off -- just as Cameron returns, a beer -- complete with a napkin and straw -- in his hand.
Chastity glares with a jealous fury after Bianca and Joey, then gives Cameron the once-over and walks away.
Michael appears.
He smacks himself in the head.
Michael pats him on the shoulder.
Kat and a crowd of White Rastas and Cowboys stand in a drunken group hug singing "I Shot the Sheriff".  
Kat has another shot glass in hand.
Patrick is showing a scar to an inebriated, enraptured cheerleader.  
He looks up at Kat and smiles meets his eyes then looks away.
Bianca stands next to Joey, sipping from her beer.
Bianca tries to appear impressed, but it's getting difficult.
He looks over her shoulder and waves at someone.  
Bianca takes the opportunity to escape.
Bianca shuts the door and leans on it with a sigh.  
Chastity applies lip-gloss in the mirror.
Chastity rolls her eyes.
There's a KNOCK at the door.  
Bianca opens it to find a very drunken Kat.
Bianca grabs Chastity's arm
and they exit Patrick tries to remove a shot glass from Kat's hand.
Maybe you should let me have it.
Kat is fierce in her refusal to let go.
Joey enters, grabbing Patrick by the shoulder, distracting him from his task.
As Patrick turns, Kat breaks free and dives into the sea of dancing people in the dining room.
He peels off some bills.
A very drunken Kat jumps up onto the kitchen island and starts dancing by herself.  
She lets loose, hair flying.
She's almost burlesque.
Others form a crowd, clapping and cheering her on She swings her head around BANGING it on a copper pot hanging from the rack above the center island.  
She starts to sway, then goes down as Patrick rushes over to catch her.
The others CLAP, thinking this is a wonderful finale.
Patrick sets her down on her feet, holding her up.
She tries to push him away, but staggers when she does grabs her again, bracing her.
She tries to sit on the floor.
He pulls her back to her.
As Patrick walks Kat through the dining room, Cameron  grabs his arm.
CAMERON We need to talk.
Kat slides down to the floor and Patrick struggles to  get h back on her feet.
Patrick doesn't have time for this.
Patrick continues walking an oblivious Kat outside.
Cameron stands there, unsure how to make use of this advice Patrick marches Kat around the yard, holding her up.
He walks her over to the swingset and plops her down in a swing, moving her hands to hang onto the chains.
She sits and looks at him for a moment with a smile.
Then FALLS over backward.
Patrick rushes to right her, then starts pushing her on the swing to keep her entertained.
He stops the swing.
Kat is asleep, her head resting against the swing's chains.
He drags her to her feet and starts singing loudly.
He sits her down on the slide and shakes her like a rag doll.
He sighs with relief.
They share some meaningful eye contact.
And then she PUKES on his shoes.
Kat washes her face and grabs a bottle of Scope, taking a big swig.
A KNOCK sounds at the door.
Bianca opens the door and looks at her sister with the smuggest of all possible grins.
Gives her a "don't even start" look.
She pushes past her and leaves the bathroom.
Kat's in the driver's seat.  
Patrick leans in and takes the keys out of the ignition.
Kids loiter on the lawn.  
Bianca and Chastity walk outside Joey catches up to them.
Chastity looks at Bianca, who wears a pained expression.
She looks at her watch.
They head back into the party, leaving an astonished Bianca Cameron exits the party and stops when he sees Bianca standing alone.
He starts to walk on.
He stops.
She gives him a helpless smile.
Patrick drives as Kat sits in the passenger seat, fiddling with the radio dial.  
She finds a SONG she's happy with and Patrick quickly changes it.
She changes it back to her song.
He changes it back.
Patrick doesn't have an answer for this, so he let's her listen to her song.
He doesn't answer, but instead, frowns and turns up the music.  
She bobs her head drunkenly.
She points to the radio.
She turns to look at him.
Her voice loses it's venom.
He turns to look at her -- she looks anything but scary right now.  
He tries to hide his smile.
Yeah --
well, I'm no picnic myself.
They eye each other, sharing a moment of connection, realizing they're both created the same exterior for themselves.
Patrick pulls into her driveway and shuts off the motor.  
He looks up at her house.
Kat stares at him with new admiration.
She leans drunkenly toward him.
Their faces grow closer as if they're about to kiss And then Patrick turns away.
Kat stares at him, pissed.  
Then gets out of the car, SLAMMING the door shut behind her.
Bianca and Cameron ride in silence.
He finally breaks it.
Bianca bites her lip.
BIANCA thinks a minute He pulls up in front of the house.
She looks at him for a moment -- then grabs his face and gives him a kiss on the lips.  
He draws back in surprise, then kisses her back.  
She smiles, then gets out of the car without another word.
Cameron grins and drives away.
Kat sits at her desk, burying her face in a book as the others enter.  
The White Rastas are first.
He grabs her hand and kisses it as she pulls it away.
CLEM, a cowboy, enters, high-fiving Derek with new-found friendliness.
He sits next to Derek.
Joey saunters in and takes his seat.
Mrs. Blaise enters and sits at her desk.
Patrick enters, late, and slinks to his desk.  
Kat looks up, down and around, everywhere but at Patrick.
Mrs. Blaise tries to remember what she's supposed to talk about.
She clears her throat.
Groans.
The class is frozen in apathy.
Ms. Blaise hands him the sonnet.
He shifts uncomfortably in his seat.
Then grins.
In the back of the room Clem raises his hand.
Kat and Mandella scrape the peanuts out of their sauce.
Patrick enters, walking to the counter to order.
He sees Kat and smiles.
She gathers her things and bolts out the door.  
Patrick looks at Mandella, who shrugs and follows Kat.
INT.
BIOLOGY CLASS - DAY Cameron and Michael flank Patrick at his lab table.
Michael and Cameron look at each other in realization, then turn back to Patrick.
You realize this puts the whole operation in peril.
No shit.  
She won't even look at me.
Why can't you just tell her you're sorry?
Patrick's expression says that this is not a possibility.
Michael makes a time out sign with his hands.
Mandella is at her locker.  
Drawings of William Shakespeare adorn the door.  
She looks at them with a sigh, then ties her silk scarf tightly around her neck, in an attempt to cut off her air supply.
Michael walks up.
MICHAEL rocks.  
Very hip.
She looks at him suspiciously.
Michael thinks for a minute.
He leans in close to her, conspiratorially.
Cameron sits next to Patrick on the bleachers as they watch Kat's practice.
A PUCK flies at them from the field, narrowly missing their heads.
He looks at Cameron.
Chastity rounds the corner and bends down to get a drink from the water fountain.
Joey stands talking to two JOCK COHORTS.  
The guys don't see her.
The cohorts chortle Chastity keeps drinking from the fountain Joey leans against Patrick's Jeep.  
Patrick is inside.
He pulls out his wallet and hands Patrick a wad of money.
Patrick does, with a smile, as he ROARS out of the parking lot.
Kat and Mandella deface a prom flyer.
Mr. Chapin patrols as boys and girls shoot arrows at targets Joey swaggers up to Bianca, who is taking careful aim.
Chastity watches from across the row.
She lets the arrow go and turns to look at him.
In the background, a RASTA crumples to the ground.  
Hit A casualty of Gym.  
Mr. Chapin scurries over.
Bianca looks at him, surprised.
Joey takes the bow and arrow from Bianca's hand.  
He draws back and takes aim.
Chastity looks over from her spot on the field, but keeps lips firmly shut.
Kat browses through the feminist lit section Patrick appears, through a hole in the books.
Kat stares at him, deadpan.
She pushes past him and heads out the' door Pat looks down at the book he's been holding in his hand: Taming of the Shrew.
Cameron  and Michael flank Patrick as he shovels food into mouth.
Patrick  thinks for a minute.
Kat and the other students sit at their desks, taking a quiz Patrick's seat is conspicuously empty.
From outside, we hear the soft, unsure beginnings of a SONG.
Kat looks up, then out the window, HORRIFIED.
The song grows louder until we realize it's The Partridge Family's "I Think I Love You".  
Being sung by Patrick.
The STUDENTS rush to the window.
OUTSIDE Patrick stands beneath the window, crooning.
Scurvy is next to him, keeping the beat on the bongos and doing backup vocal s.
He makes quite a sarcastic show of it.
Mrs. Blaise touches her heart, as if the song is for her.
Kat slowly walks to the window, peeking below.
Patrick smiles at her as he finishes the verse with a big finale.
The other students laugh, clap, cheer, etc.
Kat sinks down, mortified, but with a slight smile Patrick and several other miscreants sit quietly, mulling over their misfortune.
He makes the appropriate hand gesture Mr. Chapin, the gym teacher, sits at the desk in front, ignoring them while he reads a girly weightlifting magazine.
Patrick looks up at the sound of her voice and sees Kat standing in the doorway.  
She gives him a smile and he perks up a little.
Kat walks into the room and addresses Mr. Chapin again.
He turns fully to face her.
Kat glances over at Patrick and motions her head toward the window.
Patrick shrugs, not knowing what she ' s talking about.
She motions again, and looks toward the window with an expression that says, "Make a break for it, moron."
Kat brings her attention back to Mr. Chapin while Patrick inches out of his seat toward the window.
The other miscreants watch with glee.
Patrick is halfway out the window now.  
And none too happy about it, considering they're on the second floor.
He eyes a large TREE a few feet away from MR.
CHAPIN.  
He starts to turn away from Kat.
Kat starts to panic, as Patrick has yet to make the jump for the tree.
He turns back toward her again, the very second before he would have spotted Patrick.
Kat glances toward the window.  
Patrick's just about to make the jump.
From behind, we see her lift up her shirt and flash her bra at Mr. Chapin, just as Patrick makes the Jump.
The miscreants cheer, for both the daring' escape and the flash of skin.
Mr. Chapin reddens and tries to be stern.
He motions to the remaining detention prisoners, without noticing Patrick's absence.
Kat smiles at him.
Kat bolts out the door.  
Mr. Chapin goes back to his muscle mag, wiping the sweat from his brow.
Kat arrives at the tree.
looking around breathlessly, seeing no one.
She does.  
He's still in the tree.
She assesses the branch structure.
She sighs and dose so.  
When she gets to his level, she perches on the branch next to him.  
He grins at her.
Then swings himself down with the grace and ease of a monkey, leaving her sitting there, realizing she's been duped.
She climbs down after him Patrick and Kat walk amongst the games.
She stops and picks up a toy gun that SHOOTS water at giggling hyenas and wails on it.  
The barker hands her a stuffed animal as her prize.  
She hands it to the small KID next to her and they continue walking.
She blushes under his gaze.
He motions to the SIGN for a paint-ball game.
She grins The two of them creep through the paint-ball course, stealthy and full of the desire to best the other.
Patrick nails Kat in the back with a big glob of red paint Kat gets him in the chest with a glob of blue.
Patrick returns fire with a big yellow splat to the side of her face.
Kat squirts a green shot to his forehead After a few more shots, they're both covered in paint She tries to shoot him again, only to find that her gun is empty.
Patrick grabs her in a victorious tackle.  
They land, laughing.
It's hard to even recognize them, as their hair and faces are so smeared with paint globs, but they still manage to find each other's eyes.
He wipes a smear of blue paint away from her lips,  as he goes to kiss her.
NEARBY The kid with the stuffed animal, points.
His mother hurries him away.
What's started as a tackle has turned into a passionate kiss Patrick pulls up in Kat's driveway.  
Their paint wardrobe has dried by now
and they look like refugees from some strange, yet colorful, war.
He shuts off the car and turns to her.
He kisses her neck.  
It tickles.  
She laughs.
Kat's smile disappears.
Patrick sits quietly, torn.
He can't very well tell her he being paid to take her.
Kat turns to him, getting angry.
He sits silently, not looking at her, confirming her suspicions.
He takes out a cigarette.  
She breaks it in half before she SLAMS the car door and walks into the house.
Patrick PEELS out of the driveway.
Kat turns at the front door and watches him go Patrick pulls up to a stop light and waits for .the
green
He glances over at A DRUNKEN HOMELESS GUY in the median, who has decided that he doesn't need to wear pants.
Patrick pulls out his wallet, takes the wad of money Joey gave him and hands it to the homeless guy.
The light turns green and Patrick pulls away Kat stands at the sink, scrubbing paint off of her face Bianca TAPS on the open door.
Kat pushes the door shut with a SLAM Cameron and Bianca sit together at their study cubby.  
She fingers a strand of her hair.
Bianca stares at him for a moment.
He mock stabs himself with a pencil as she giggles and smacks his hand away.
He looks stricken.
Mandella struggles with the lock on her locker.  
Finally, it opens.
Hanging inside is a beautiful DRESS, inspired by the 16th Century.  
Mandella slowly unpins a NOTE from the dress.
Mandella's agog.  
Trevor walks by and sees her holding the dress.
Mandella looks up sharply, shaken from her reverie.
Mandella grins It is.
Sharon is at her computer, Walter at his exercise bike.
Bianca enters and walks over to Walter.
Bianca storms out.
Sharon stops her typing and looks up at Walter.
Bianca lies on her bed.  
MTV blares.  
A KNOCK sounds.
Come in.
Kat enters and sits down on the bed, muting the TV.
Kat clears her throat.
Kat takes a deep breath.
Bianca stares at her, dumbfounded.
Kat stands up slowly.
She rises and holds the door open for Kat, then slams it behind her.
A sprinkler cruises the lawn.
Kat lies in bed, staring at the ceiling.  
She rolls over and picks up the phone.
Bianca, still in her pajamas, eats a bowl of cereal while watching "I Love Lucy" reruns.
A KNOCK sounds.
Kat opens the door and peers in with a grin.
Bianca looks up, hopefully.
Walter and Sharon are in front of the television.  
Walter has the TV Guide in hand, glasses on.
Bianca walks into the living room.  
She's wearing a prom dress.
Walter scurries takes off his glasses and looks from Bianca to Sharon.
The DOORBELL RINGS.  
Bianca runs to open it.  
There stands CAMERON.  
He takes in Bianca's outfit.
Walter rises.  
Sharon pulls him back down on the couch.
The door SLAMS.  
As Sharon looks at Walter with a grin, a blur rushes down the stairs and out the door.  
The blur has Kat ' s voice.
The door SLAMS again.  
Walter and Sharon 'are alone.
The DOORBELL RINGS again.
Walter opens it to find Joey on the porch, wearing a tux.
He SLAMS the door shut Kat pulls up in her car, emerging resplendent in an ice gown.
Patrick sits on the steps, waiting.  
In a tux.
Patrick winces slightly, but covers it with a smile.
He remains seated.  
Kat fidgets nervously.
He rises and stares at her, taking in her image appreciatively.  
She blushes and turns away.
A hotel ballroom transformed into a fantasy world.  
Patrick and Kat enter, Kat attempting to deny the romance of it.
A cowboy two-steps by them, dragging some poor girl around.
Kat steps forward, looking around and spots Cameron and Bianca dancing cheek to cheek.  
She smiles.
Mandella enters nervously, in the long Elizabethan gown, hair piled on top of her head.  
She spots Kat and hurries over.
Patrick looks toward the door and taps Kat.  
She turns and points Mandella the same way.
Michael - in full Shakespearean dress with a new goatee on his chin - bows in their direction.
Mandella's grin couldn't be bigger.
Michael swashbuckles over to them, taking Mandella's hand and leading her onto the dance floor.
Patrick rolls his eyes.
Kat and Patrick dance to a slow SONG.  
Whatever he's whispering into her ear is making her laugh.
Cam and Bianca dance nearby, glowing with happiness.
She whispers something in his ear and heads for the ladies' room Bianca walks in, positively radiant.
Chastity emerges from a stall.
Chastity checks her hair in the mirror,  aloof.
Chastity maintains her snooty tone.
BIANCA What're you talking about?
Appalled, Bianca storms out.
Chastity  tries to backpedal.
Joey, drunk, disorderly and pissed off, walks in with a few stray jocks - also dateless.  
He zeroes in on Cameron, now consoling a pissed-off Bianca.
Patrick and Kat continue to slow dance, oblivious to the evil about to erupt.
He takes a breath and looks away, not meeting her eyes.
Kat stares at him for a moment and laughs a delighted laugh.
He's interrupted by Joey's hand on his shoulder.
Michael spots the altercation and dances Mandella over to Cameron and Bianca.
Michael takes Cameron aside, leaving Mandella and Bianca staring after them.
Michael and Cameron approach Joey as he continues to taunt Patrick who keeps quiet, realizing the weight of this situation.
Joey turns toward Michael and Cameron.
JOEY You two are in big trouble Cameron faces Joey.
Joey PUNCHES Cameron in the face, taking him by surprise Cameron holds his nose as it bleeds onto his tux
The various cliques descend angrily and Joey is soon surrounded by seething Cowboys, Coffee Kids and White Rastas.
The other Rastas GASP, as if stung by the realization that they're white.
Joey turns back to Patrick and Kat.
Kat looks from Joey to Patrick, not sure what she's hearing.
Joey pushes through the crowd but a HAND drags him back.
It's Bianca.  
And she BELTS the hell out of him.
She BELTS him again.
And AGAIN.
Cliques now descend on Joey, punching him wildly.
KAT runs down the stairs, Patrick chasing her.
He catches up to her now.
She turns to face him with a countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
He grabs her and kisses her to shut her up.  
After a second, she jerks away and flees down the stairs and out of sight.
Bianca stands at the top of the stairs, watching.  
She's never looked more guilty.
Kat is sprawled on the couch in sweats, wrapped in a blanket, watching "Sixteen Candles".  
When Molly Ringwald leans across the birthday cake to get a kiss from her dream date, Kat changes the channel disgustedly, settling for an infomercial The phone sits next to her.  
Not ringing.  
Bianca breezes in, bearing a cup of tea.
Kat takes the tea and gives a weak smile.
Bianca sits down next to her.
Bianca gives her a squeeze, then jumps up when the DOORBELL rings, opening the door to a waiting Cameron.  
He peeks his head inside.
The door shuts behind her as Walter enters.
Walter sits down on the arm of the chair and watches the infomercial with Kat.
Kat looks up in surprise.
Kat reaches over and gives him a hug INT.
CAFETERIA - DAY Kat stands grabs a box of cornflakes from the food line.
She turns and looks at him.
He trails off when he realizes she's thrown her food tray against the wall and marched off -- the old "kill, kill" look back in her eyes.
Kat stomps up the hallway, full of menace Bianca's English teacher perches on the edge of a desk, open book in hand.
The door of the classroom FLIES open and an angry Kat stalks in, yanking Bianca from her chair and dragging her toward the hallway.
Bianca tries to pull away as Kat drags her by the hair between two rows of lockers.
Miss Perky walks up.
Miss Perky stares at both sisters as they sit before her, then focuses on Bianca.
She turns to Kat.
Bianca rises, taking Kat by the arm.
And Bianca leave Miss Perky's office.
Mrs. Blaise faces the class.
Nerds in the back high-five each other.
No one moves.  
Then Kat slowly stands up.
Patrick looks up.
She downs a couple Prozac.
Kat stands, puts on her glasses, and takes a deep breath before reading from her notebook.
She pauses, then continues.
She takes a deep breath, and looks quickly at Patrick, who stares at the floor.
She looks directly at Patrick.  
He looks back this time.
The look they exchange says everything.
Then she walks out of the room The rest of the class remains in stunned silence.
Kat walks to her car alone.
When she opens the door, she's greeted with a Fender Stratocaster guitar, reclining in the front seat.
She picks it up slowly, inspecting every detail, then spins around.
Patrick stands there, smiling.
She doesn't answer, but hides a smile, so he walks  closer.
Blushes and looks down.
Looks up.
surprised and embarrassed that he found out
He takes her upturned face as a sign to kiss her and he does She lets him this time.
Then breaks it off.
He grimaces.
He quiets her with another kiss Which she breaks off again.
He kisses her again, not letting her end it this time.
We hear the sounds of MUSIC and LAUGHTER.
Patrick is at the barbecue grill, flipping burgers.  
Kat watches.
ON BIANCA AND CAMERON As they argue on the patio.
Rises to get the yearbook.
Severely making-out in a lawn chair.  
She comes up for a breath.
Michael pulls her back down for another round ON KAT AND She tries to keep him from grabbing the yearbook that Bianca now hands her.
Bianca hands her the yearbook.
Flips to a page.
INSERT - A horrifically nerdy freshman year picture Glasses, bad hair, headgear -- the works.
She holds up the picture for all to view.
Patrick cringes and throws a handful of pretzels at her.
Kat and Bianca huddle over the picture, giggling --  as we CRANE UP and hear a GIRLY PUNK version of The Partridge Family's "I Think I Love You".
