TWIN BOYS, RUDY AND JACOB CARGES , ride their bikes through a suburban neighborhood.
Rudy, the more athletic of the two, rides at a breakneck pace.
Jacob rides slowly due to a HOCKEY MASK that he wears over his face.
It's making it difficult for him to see.
The boys turn down a DIRT PATH and ride deep into some WOODS.
Rudy and Jacob ride to the edge of a CLEARING and stop.
Across from the clearing is a large OAK TREE, which has a TREE HOUSE perched high up in it's branches.
The boys cautiously look around and whisper.
After a beat, Rudy gets off his bike and starts walking towards the tree house.   
Jacob stays behind, eyeing their safety.
Suddenly, a ROCK comes careening from off screen.   
It hits Jacob in the head and knocks him to the ground.
Rudy darts for the oak tree as a hail storm of rock and debris come flying at him.
As Jacob rises, a stream of blood pours down the front of his mask.
He quickly runs for the tree.
TWO BOYS, JEFF AND KENNY , trailer park, punks come running out of the woods, rocks in hand.
Rudy and Jacob climb the tree, using makeshift RUNGS that are nailed into the trunk.
In the floor of the tree house is a DOOR.
Rudy removes a KEY from a chain around his neck and unlocks it.
He climbs inside and pulls Jacob in after him.
Jacob looks back and sees Jeff and Kenny, running over.
Rudy crosses to the door with a BUCKET of liquid.
Rudy dumps the piss onto Jeff and Kenny.
Now drenched with piss, Jeff and Kenny jump from the tree, screaming.
They try to shake the urine off.
Kenny spits the taste out of his mouth and angrily calls up to the boys.
Jacob rips the hockey mask off.
(A large STRAWBERRY BIRTHMARK covers the right side of his face.)
He's insulted.
Jeff and Kenny walk off.
Jeff runs off screen and throws up.
LEONARD FISHER , severely obese, sits at the dinner table, eating pancakes.
His FATHER, PATRICK  and TWO YOUNGER SISTERS, HALEY and SARA  are seated with him.
They are all overweight.
LEONARD'S MOTHER, GRACE , the largest of them all, crosses to the table, sits and starts eating.
JUMP CUTS show the progression of their meal.
From globs of syrup being placed over pancakes to the mass consumption of omelets and sausage.
Caught up with eating, nobody speaks.
A modern, upper-class home with a large, well tended yard.
YACCO CHUANG , Asian-American, sexy, uptight, psychiatrist, paces the hallway on the phone.
HER DAUGHTER, MALEE  with long, black, braided hair and thick rimmed glasses, peeks her head out of the bathroom.
Yacco walks off.    
Deflated, Malee reenters the bathroom.
Malee is wrapped in a towel and holding a TAMPON.
Confused, she grabs the TAMPON BOX and reads the directions.
Malee's confusion quickly turns to disgust.
Leonard sits upon a large rock with the words, LINDSAY ACRES inscribed on the center of it.
He eats POPCORN.
Hanging off the top right hand corner of the rock is a banner, which reads, 5th ANNUAL 4TH OF JULY PICNIC.
ALL INVITED.
Malee rides her bike up to Leonard.
She HONKS her BIKE HORN at every pedestrian in her path.
She comes to a screeching halt an inch in front of Leonard.
Leonard gets on his bike.
Jacob wipes at his head wound, frightened.
Jacob looks out the makeshift window in the wall.
Rudy and Jacob turn to find Malee and Leonard, entering the tree house.
Rudy pushes Jacob.   
Jacob pushes back.   
The two start fighting.
Off the boy's fighting - Yacco sits across from DEBBIE POOLE , housewife, conservatively dressed.
Embarrassed, Maggie lifts up her shirt sleeve.
We see that her arm is covered with cuts.
Dried blood is everywhere.
Yacco is horrified by the sight.
Suddenly, Malee bursts into her mother's office.
Malee quickly exits the office.
Yacco enters the reception area.       
She is obviously angry.
Yacco crosses to a desk and removes a FLUTE from a drawer.
Angered, Malee grabs the flute and exits.
Malee drops on the stoop like a ton of bricks.      
After a beat, she reluctantly begins playing her flute.
A few pedestrians stop to listen.
Rudy and Jacob stare into the camera with big grins.
The boys relax their poses as ASHLEY and JIM CARGES , enter the shot.
Ashley puts her camera down on the table and picks up a large PRESENT.
Rudy rips into the present, revealing a SONY PLAY STATION.
Ashley removes an ENVELOPE from her purse.
She hands it to Jacob.
His enthusiasm suddenly turns to worry.
Jacob removes a colorful PAMPHLET from the envelope.
Jacob drops the envelope, walks from the room.
Rudy enters the darkened room and crosses over to Jacob, who has his face planted in his pillow.
Jacob has been crying.
Rudy exits the room, slamming the door after him.
It's your typical fourth of July block party.
Families crowd the streets with BBQ GRILLS, cotton candy and beer.
Children ride their bicycles, which are adorned with streamers, balloons and noise makers.
Off to the side, Malee and Jacob sit, eating SNOW CONES.
Jim Carges tends to some burgers on his grill.   
GABE ARTUNION , real estate agent, approaches.
Gabe writes down a number and hands it to Jim.
Jim looks at the figure and his eyes go wide.
A line of PICNIC TABLES surround nearby GRILLS.
Leonard's family minus Leonard sit, eating as if there's no tomorrow.
ON TWO SOCCER MOMS, watching Leonard's family eat.
The two woman walk off.
As they disperse, we see LEONARD, standing behind them.
He has heard every word.
Hurt, Leonard looks down at his own plate, which overflows with food.
He feels embarrassed and disgusted.
Patrick rises and crosses over to the buffet table.
Patrick grabs the ladle and begins to fill up his plate.
He walks off with his food.
Leanard looks down at the food, shrugs, then helps himself to a heaping porion.
RUDY straddles his bike while watching a group of 8-year- olds, having a water balloon fight.
Jealous, he reminiscences to a time when he was one of those kids.
Rudy spins around to find Kenny, standing at his side.
Kenny pushes Rudy to the ground and then jumps on top of him.
Rudy struggles to get free, but he's overpowered.
A crowd of kids surround them, chanting, "FIGHT, FIGHT".
Jeff hocks a phlegm wad onto Rudy's face.
Rudy screams as the stream of saliva, drips across his nose and onto his lip.
Kenny looks up and sees a neighborhood parent coming over.
Kenny pushes Rudy down once more and runs off.      
Rudy slowly rises, wiping the saliva from his face.
The entire neighborhood has descended upon a VACANT LOT.
They are awaiting the annual, fireworks display.
We FIND Leonard, Jacob and Malee sitting on a large rock, which gives them a birds eye view of the crowd.
Rudy runs over to the rock and climbs up top.
Leonard looks between Jacob and Malee.
Insulted, Jacob slides off the rock and walks away.       
Malee follows.
The fireworks display begins.       
As they turn to watch it...
We SCAN the room and come to a set of BUNK BEDS.
A body in the top bunk sits up and turns on a small bed light.
Reveal, it's RUDY.
Rudy grabs his watch from the post and silences the alarm.
Jacob sits up in bed.
Jacob lies back in bed, silent.
Rudy jumps off the top bunk, gets dressed and grabs a BASEBALL BAT.
Before leaving, Rudy looks back at Jacob and shakes his head, disappointed.
With that, Rudy disappears out the window.
DARKNESS...
SFX: CREAKING DOOR.
A FLASHLIGHT illuminates the location.
We are...
Leonard and Rudy enter with the help of a flashlight.
Leonard reaches inside his backpack and removes a number of SNACK CAKES from his backpack.
Rudy shakes his head, removes his BAT from his backpack.
He swings it hard.
The treehouse is illuminated by the full moon, which rests in the sky above.
The thunderous sound of a million crickets fills the air.
Both boys lie asleep.
A mosquito flies in through the window and buzzes past Leonard's ear.
He haphazardly swipes at it in his sleep, wakes himself up.
Rudy jumps awake.
Leonard rises, picks up his bag and opens the TRAP DOOR in the floor.
He is about to exit.
Suddenly, a FLAMING COCKTAIL comes flying through the window.
It hits Rudy in the head, explodes and engulfs him in flames.
Jeff and Kenny stand a few yards away from the treehouse.
Both laugh at the sight of the flames inside.
Jeff lights his COCKTAIL.
It misses the window and smashes into the side of the tree house.
Jeff and Kenny hear Leonard and Rudy screaming from inside.
Rudy, now covered in flames, rolls on the floor, screaming.
Leonard struggles to put out the flames with his backpack, but it's of no use.
He spins around and finds the wall behind him, engulfed with flames.
He screams, terrified.
Jeff and Kenny are frantic.
Jeff turns around and runs back home through the woods.
Leonard backs away from Rudy.
Unfortunately, he doesn't realize that the door in the floor is open.
We watch over Kenny's shoulder as Leonard falls from the treehouse, smacks his head on the tree trunk and comes to a crash upon some rocks.
Kenny runs over and finds Leonard unconscious.
Off the treehouse, which is now a towering inferno - Ashley jumps up from a deep sleep.
There is terror on her face.
She rushes over to her DESK and turns on the LAMP.
Ken is awakened by her.
Ashley turns off the desk lamp and returns to bed.
ON JIM and ASHLEY, watching Rudy's casket as it is lowered into the ground.
The once spirited, couple now looks tired and pained.
They are accompanied by a number of mourners.
Jacob stands beside his parents.
Tears stream from his eyes, across his birthmark and off his chin.
So stricken with grief, Jacob barely has to energy to wipe the tears away.
We continue on through the crowd and find Malee.
Embarrassed by the tears, she brings a black veil down over her face.
Malee enters, still wearing the veil.
She crosses to the couch and sits beside A PATIENT, GUS MAITLAND , long haired, hippi-type with a moustache and beard.
Gus eyes Malee, intrigued.
Malee lifts her veil and looks at Gus.
Gus shoots Malee a look just as Yacco exits her office.
Gus rises and enters the office.
Yacco crosses to Malee and sits beside her.
Malee looks to Yacco, stunned by her comment.
Yacco re-enters her office.       
A beat.
Malee starts to cry.
Cars fill the driveway and line the street in front of Jacob's house.
Mourners stand in small groups, engaged in hushed conversations.
Jim sits in his recliner, crying.
A number of MOTHERS watch as Ashley obsessively prepares a platter of deviled eggs.
Concerned, one of them crosses over to her.
Ashley opens up her cupboards in search of the paprika.
Now angry, Ashley starts throwing objects out of the cupboards, haphazardly.
Ashley slams her cupboard doors shut.
She looks around and spots the GARBAGE PAIL across the kitchen.
Ashley crosses to the garbage.
She lifts it upside down and dumps the trash all over the floor.
Ashley gets on her knees and starts searching.
The other women look to each other, uncomfortable.     
Mother # 1 kneels down beside her.
Ashley ignores her.
Mother # 1 grabs Ashley's hands
and looks her in the eye.
Ashley stops cold.     
The grief and heartache hit once again.
The mothers collectively drop to the floor and surround Ashley in an attempt to comfort her.
They give no care to the pile of garbage they now sit in.
Leonard lies in a bed, staring out the window.
There is a BANDAGE wrapped around his forehead.
Patrick sits beside him in a chair.
Grace enters, carrying bags of MCDONALD'S food with her.
Patrick crosses over to the food and grabs his lunch.
Grace crosses over to Leonard.
Leonard starts crying.
Grace hands Leonard a double cheeseburger.
Patrick and Grace sit across from the DOCTOR .
Grace and Patrick shoot him a look of death.
Leonard lies in bed, staring out the window.
A NURSE enters and crosses over to his bedside table.
The nurse sees that Leonard has barely touched his food.
The nurse grabs the tray of food.
She removes an untouched apple and places it in Leonard's hand.
The nurse exits.
Leonard eyes the apple in his hand.
A beat.
He reluctantly takes a bite.
The apple makes a loud CRUNCH.
Leonard starts chewing.
After a few seconds, a smile comes to his face.
He likes it.
Jacob lies in bed, holding Rudy's old baseball GLOVE.
He brings the glove to his nose, and a flood of old memories come back to him.
Jacob rises, crosses over to the closet and removes a metal LOCK BOX.
He selects 666 for the combination and the box opens.
Jacob removes the contents; baseball cards, some firecrackers, a few ticket stubs and a PHOTOGRAPH of he and Rudy at age 5.
He can't help but smile.
Gabe Artunian crosses over to Jim.
As Gabe turns to leave.
Off Gabe's look - TIGHT ON a CHAIN SAW chopping down a tree.
WIDEN to REVEAL a CONSTRUCTION CREW, tearing down the last of the woods.
Rows and rows of STUMPS make it look like a graveyard for trees.
We FIND Malee and Jacob, straddling their bikes a few feet away from the site.
Leonard is beside them on a scooter.
He as a band-aid on his forehead.
Leonard shoots Malee a look.    
She silences herself.
Jacob shrugs.
Suddenly, something catches Malee's attention off screen.
It's GUS, standing beside a BULLDOZER.
Leonard and Jacob start heading off.
Malee stays for a beat, eyeing Gus as he removes his T-shirt and exposes his rock abs.
She is obviously turned on.
Leonard enters to find Grace, placing a casserole dish on the table.
The table is filled with a cornucopia of food.
Grace puts the plate of food into the sink.
Off Leonard's confusion - Students make their way inside for the first day of school.
There is a sign out front, which reads: WELCOME BACK.
A TEACHER walks along the line of desks, showing students their assigned seats.
Tommy takes his seat.
Jacob takes his seat.
Jacob along with his classmates are shocked to discover that Rudy's name hasn't been removed from the attendance sheet.
The teacher is unaware of the mistake.
Tommy looks to Jacob.       
Since Rudy's not saying anything, he will.
The teacher checks her attendance sheet.
The teacher looks around at the other students, realizing Jacob is telling the truth.
Off Jacob's look -. COACH GILMORE , overweight, gym teacher, dressed in a jogging suit, snaps gum while addressing his students.
The class of boys stand up against the wall.    
Leonard is amongst them.
His gym uniform barely fits.
The entire class groans.
As coach speaks, Leonard looks as if he's going to throw up.
A STUDENT performs chin ups with great ease.
The student finishes his run with a count of twelve.   
He hops off the bar and crosses over to his classmates.
Leonard crosses to the chin-up bar, grabs a hold of it and begins struggling to lift himself up.
Unfortunately, he can only manage 1/8th of an inch.
Leonard drops off the bar, exhausted.
A few students laugh.        
Coach shakes his head, disgusted.
Coach stands over the boy, timing him with a stop watch.
The student increases his speed.
The student rises off the mat and walks over to the other boys.
Leonard enters frame and drops on the mat like a ton of bricks.
Leonard struggles to lift himself up but, he can't do it.
Leonard's face turns red.
He clenches his teeth.
Unfortunately, due to the pressure he is exerting, he blows a loud fart.
The gym erupts with laughter.
The coach and his students stand at the beginning of the track, waiting for Leonard to finish his laps.
Leonard slowly walks over.           
He is soaking wet and breathing heavy.
The class can't help but laugh.
The class walks off.
Leonard turns back and crosses over to the coach.
The coach bends down and rifles through his GYM BAG.    
He removes 2 books and hands them to Leonard.
Leonard begins walking back to the gym.    
After a few steps, he stops and turns back.
The school BAND is on stage and playing a particularly horrendous rendition of the STAR SPANGLED BANNER.
We FIND MALEE in the flute section, playing her heart out.
The CONDUCTOR, MR.
FARMER  overly energetic and dorky, waves his baton, silencing the band.
The band sits silent.
Off Malee, weighing the decision in her mind.
Malee stands outside Mr. Farmer's office, staring at the SIGN UP SHEET on his door.
After a beat, she lifts her pen to sign her name.
Before she writes it, she stops, quickly turns around and walks away.
After a beat, Malee returns to the sign up sheet and starts writing her name.
Halfway through, she stops, scratches out her name and walks off.
We remain on the sign up sheet.
After a few seconds, Malee's hand enters the shot and writes in her name.
Jacob enters to find Jim and Ashley fighting.
Ashley turns to Jacob as if realizing his presence for the first time.
Ashley storms out of the room.
Jacob looks to his father, unnerved by the sight of his mother so upset.
Jim just turns and walks into the living room.
Leonard awakens and silences the alarm.   
He sits up in bed for a moment and comes to his senses.
Dressed in a sweat suit and sneakers, Leonard sprints down the driveway and to the street.
His sweat suit is so tight, Leonard looks like a stuffed sausage.
With each step he takes, Leonard breathing becomes heavier and heavier.
Sweat forms on his forehead and drips down his face.
Within seconds, Leonard's pace tapers off.
He struggles to continue but is so out of shape, stopping is inevitable.
Leonard leans over, gasping for air.
He looks back and realizes that he only ran about one hundred yards.
In fact, his house is still in view.
Leonard turns around and starts walking back home.    
After a few steps, he stops and throws up.
Gus stands inside of a shallow ditch, digging out the roots of an old tree.
Gus turns and sees Malee behind him, holding a PICNIC BASKET.
They shake hands.
Gus looks around, confused.
This location is anything but picnic friendly.
Bulldozers plough through the scene, blasting exhaust into the air.
Men scream at each other.
Malee walks off.
Gus watches as she makes her way through the construction site.
Gus and Malee sit on a checkered blanket, eating Chinese food with chopsticks.
A large CEMENT MIXER stands behind them.
Malee smiles.    
She's got a major crush on Gus now.
TIGHT ON TV: VIDEO GAME - HALO.
Two soldiers fire at each other with supersonic weapons.
One soldier is particularly annihilated.
GAME OVER appears.
REVEAL Jacob and Leonard in front of the TV.
Malee off to the side, reading a book.
Jacob throws his remote down.
The boys sit in silence for a beat.
Malee closes her book, looks over at Leanord.
Off Jacob, thinking-
The bedroom door slowly opens.
Jacob peeks his head inside the darkened room and quietly enters.
He tip toes over to his parent's bed.
Ashley lies asleep, wrapped up in a bundle of blankets.
Jacob crosses to her night stand and opens the top drawer.
He removes her purse, unzips it and steals some cash, which totals around 60 dollars.
Jim sits in his chair, staring off into space.   
Jacob enters and crosses to the front door.
With the help of the BUS DRIVER, Jacob loads his bike into the luggage compartment underneath the bus.
Then he hands the driver a ticket and boards.
Jacob takes a seat up front.
After a few moments, the driver boards, starts the engine and drives off.
Jacob and Kenny sit, staring at each other through a plate of glass.
Kenny picks up the ONE WAY PHONE.
Jacob does also.
Leonard sits, reading through nutritional manuals.
We see that he is writing things down on a piece of paper.
The words written are: Sugar, corn syrup, salt, gum.
Grace walks through the hallway half asleep.
She enters the kitchen and finds Leonard, sitting on the floor, surrounded by boxes of food.
All of the kitchen cupboards are open and packages line the counter tops.
Off Leonard's look - Malee is riding her bike on the sidewalk when she sees Gus, exit his car and enter her mother's office.
Malee runs up a flight of stairs.
She gets off at the second floor and enters an open, unoccupied office.
Malee runs over to the heating grate and puts her ear to it.
Yacco and Gus sit across from each other.
Gus looks to her, confused.
Malee is on the edge of her seat, listening.
We see that she has written the following words in her notebook: GUS - Yacco stares at Gus.    
He is suddenly self conscious.
Malee circles the words "Light My Fire" again and again and again.
SFX: CLANGING POTS AND PANS, coming from downstairs.
Jacob exits his room and goes to inspect the noise.
Jim stands on a chair, cleaning out the kitchen cupboards.
Pots and pans line the counter tops, dishes cover the table and non perishable foods are spread out across the floor.
Jacob enters and is taken aback by the sight of Jim standing on a chair and wearing an APRON and RUBBER GLOVES.
Jim rips the rubber gloves off with his teeth.
Jim grabs Jacob and hugs him tightly.    
Jacob pulls away, unsettled and bit frightened.
Off Jim's look - Parents and students file inside.
A large SIGN above the door reads, JEFFERSON JUNIOR HIGH FALL RECITAL.
A packed audience listens to A GIRL , standing center stage and singing "The Rose".
She is not nearly as good as she thinks she is, but she sings full throttle.
We FIND Malee, sitting in the flute section and playing along with the rest of the orchestra.
She looks to the front row, but Gus is no where to be found.
The girl finishes her song, and the crowd politely applauds.
Mr. Farmer crosses to the microphone.
The crowd laughs.   
Mr. Farmer didn't mean for it to be a joke.
The crowd applauds as Malee rises and crosses to the microphone.
Malee spots Gus, walking down the aisle.
He scurries into the front row and sits.
Malee lights up.
Mr. Farmer, waves to Malee from off stage.   
Malee looks at him.
Mr. Farmer mouths something to her.
Mr. Farmer throws up his hands.
At the mention of The Doors, Gus' smile instantly fades.    
The coincidence is just too great.
Malee starts to play "Light My Fire".
She is good.
Mr. Farmer and the audience seem pleased by her euphonious performance.
Even Gus is won over.
He appears entranced by the music.
The recital is over.
Most of the audience has filed out.
A few remain, offering their congratulations to the musicians.
Malee stands with Leonard.
Malee spots Gus, heading towards her.
Malee pushes Leonard behind her just as Gus approaches.
Leonard peeks around Malee's back.
Malee turns around and pinches Leonard.
Leonard walks off.
Malee turns back around with a big smile on her face.
She plays coy.
Gus gives Malee an innocent kiss on the check and then walks off.
Malee melts.
She stands frozen, clutching onto her flute in ecstacy.
With fire and determination, Leonard jogs.
Unfortunately, he is quickly winded by the run.
He bends over, gasping.
SUPERIMPOSE SHOT OVER SHOT: Leonard appears, running past his old, weaker self.
Stronger, he makes a few more yards and then is forced to stop.
He leans over for air, and we SUPERIMPOSE another SHOT OVER SHOT of Leonard, weeks later, running past his weaker self.
(This series of shots repeats a few more times, illustrating the progression of time and weight loss.)
Leonard runs up and down the stairs, sweating like crazy.
Grace appears, watching him around the corner.     
She shakes her head and then returns to the kitchen.
Jacob and Jeff sit across from each other on the phone.
Jeff has two black eyes and a fat lip.
He is crying profusely.
Jacob doesn't appear at all sympathetic.
Jeff rises and walks to a door, leading to the jail.
A moment later, Kenny enters, looking pissed off.
He sits across from Jacob and picks up the phone.
Jacob picks up some pictures and presses them against the glass.
Kenny slams down the phone and exits.   
Jacob smiles, having shaken him.
Grace hands out candy to a few trick or treaters at her door.
Grace crosses to the kitchen table where Pat is doing a crossword puzzle.
SFX: FRONT DOOR, opening and closing.
Haley and Sara storm into the kitchen in tears.
Haley is dressed as a MARBLE, and Sara is dressed as a WITCH.
Leonard enters.   
Haley and Sara run out of the kitchen.
Leonard storms out of the kitchen.    
Patrick and Grace are speechless.
Leonard lies on the floor, doing sit-ups.       
He can actually do a few now.
Patrick bursts into the room.
Leonard stops exercising.
Off Leonard's look - Malee hands Gus her bag of Halloween Candy.
Gus opens a snickers bar and starts eating.
Gus eyes Malee, completely unsettled.
Obviously drunk, Gus stumbles to his front door.   
He fumbles for his keys and enters.
Gus lies in bed with a bottle of whiskey in one hand and a GUN in the other.
Distraught and at the point of tears, Gus opens the chamber and loads the gun with a single bullet.
Then he spins the chamber and locks it.
Gus puts the gun to his head and fires.
NOTHING.
He throws the gun across the room, grabs the bottle of whiskey and drinks it till it's gone.
Ashley stands with a big smile on her face.
Jim and Jacob look up, stunned.
Jim and Jacob sit, stunned.
Their shock turns to intrigue as Ashley, appearing unaffected by the news, crosses to the kitchen table, opens a nearby box of donuts and begins eating.
She is smiling.
Ashley crosses to the kitchen sink.
She rolls up her sleeves and begins cleaning.
Jim crosses over to her and they kiss as if nothing happened.
Jacob is baffled by their behavior.
Jacob and Kenny are on the phone together.
Kenny looks gaunt and tired.
Jeff's death has obviously affected him.
Kenny drops the phone and begins crying in his arms.
Jacob watches through the glass, touched by Kenny's reaction.
Jacob sits on the floor, surrounded by boxes and wrapping paper.
Santa has obviously been good to him.
Jim sits on the couch, drifting in and out of sleep.
Ashley, dressed in her finest Christmas sweater, peruses the fireplace mantel and all of the decorations that line it.
She is a drastically different woman than the last time we saw her.
She looks upbeat and pretty.
Ashley looks at Jacob and smiles.    
He has just unwrapped an Ashley smiles at her son.
It's a bittersweet moment for her.
Ashley crosses to the couch and sits beside Jim.    
They hold each others hands.
Off Jacob's shock - Leonard's extended    family sits at the kitchen table, eating Christmas dinner.     
His extended family is just as overweight as his immediate.     
Leonard barely touches his own plate, too disgusted to eat.     
He rises.
The entire family stops eating and turns to him.
Leonard sits back down.    
His family quickly resumes eating.
Malee does her homework, Yacoo flips through a fashion magazine.
Yacco shoots Malee the look of death.
Malee flips through a TELEPHONE BOOK.      
She comes to Gus' name and rips out the page.
Malee knocks on Gus' door, but he doesn't answer.
Then Malee spots a WELCOME MAT.
She kicks it aside and discovers a SPARE KEY underneath.
Malee cautiously enters, shutting the door behind her.
A beat.
She allows the excitement to settle in.
It's your typical bachelor pad.
Stray beer bottles decorate every shelf and end table.
Dirty clothes drape across an old couch.
Malee continues on to the kitchen.
Malee finds the kitchen more of a mess than the living room.
Pots, pans and stacks of TV dinners line the counter top.
Malee enters and stops cold at the sight of the bed.
Its unmade and the sheets and blankets are entangled in a ball.
Aroused, Malee sits on the bed and then lies back in ecstacy.
Gus drives up, parks along the sidewalk, and gets out.
Malee goes through a photo album.
We see pictures of Gus, dressed in a firefighter's uniform.
He appears much younger and clean cut.
As Malee returns the album to the night stand, she notices a an open drawer and peeks inside.
Gus lazily makes his way upstairs.
Malee holds Gus' gun.
Complete with sound effects, she pretends to shoot a beer bottle off the dresser.
Malee laughs and then jumps across the bed like a Charlie's Angel.
Gus fumbles for his keys.
Malee stands in front of the mirror, posing.
Malee laughs in spite of herself.
In the process, she unknowingly cocks the trigger.   
Malee places the gun to her forehead and pretends to shoot herself.
TIGHT ON TRIGGER, a hair away from firing - The loud bang we heard was the front door slamming shut.   
Gus opens it and inspects the door frame.
Gus removes a beer from the fridge.
We follow him into his bedroom.
He stops cold as if feeling the presence of some one else there, but Malee is nowhere to be found.
Gus begins getting undressed.
We follow his shirt to the floor and SEE Malee, hiding underneath his bed.
Malee looks out from underneath the bed.
She watches as the now naked Gus enters the shower stall in the bathroom.
As the water falls upon Gus, Malee rises from underneath the bed and crosses over to him.
From over Gus's shoulder, we see Malee approaching.
An inch away from Gus, Malee reaches out her hand to touch him.
Suddenly, Gus breaks down and starts crying.
Unsettled, Malee slowly retreats out of the bathroom.
Malee, Leonard and Jacob sit, playing LIFE, the board game.
Malee has been silent this entire time.    
Seeing a moment, she speaks up.
Leonard looks to Jacob.
Leonard exits.   
Malee turns to Jacob.
Malee reaches into her back pack.
Malee removes Gus' gun.
Jacob crosses to his closet, removes his metal LOCK BOX and opens it.
Jacob takes the gun and places it inside.
Malee reaches into her backpack and removes the bullets.
Jacob takes them out and puts them in the lock box.
Off Jacob, locking the box up.
ON TWO FEET, running.
We REVEAL that it's LEONARD.
His once skin tight sweat suit, hangs off of him.
More than just skinny, Leonard is in perfect shape.
He runs fast, carefully avoiding puddles of melting snow.
(Spring is fast on the horizon.)
Jacob and Kenny talk via one way phone.
Their demeanor has changed since last we saw them.
No longer fraught with contempt and acrimony, they speak like two old friends.
Jacob checks his watch.
Malee fans out a fist full of twenty dollar bills.
Yacco, smiling, gets ready for work.
Malee eyes her mother, suspicious.
Yacco exits the kitchen.     
Malee looks at her cash and smiles.
Leonard, Patrick and Grace sit at the kitchen table.
Leonard eyes his mother with hatred.
Obviously hurt, Leonard storms out of the kitchen.
Grace exits the kitchen.
Leonard and Jacob play catch with a football.
Leonard punches Jacob's arm in fun.
Off Leonard, thinking-
Yacco enters Malee's room.
Yacco notices a number of department store bags strewn everywhere.
REVEAL MALEE, standing across the room.
She is no longer the gawky, adolescent girl.
Rather, she has been transformed into a beautiful young woman.
Her glasses have been replaced by contacts, and her braided pig tails by a quaff of chin length curls.
Malee spins around, giving Yacco the full picture.
Yacco exits.    
Malee looks in the mirror, deflated.
Gus watches a CEMENT TRUCK, dumping cement into a foundation.
Once the cement is poured, the truck pulls forward.
Malee is revealed, standing there and holding a picnic basket.
Gus sees the new and improved Malee for the first time.      
His jaw drops.
Off Malee's smile - Gus and Malee eat their lunch.
Malee smiles at Gus.       
He knows where this is going, and he's suddenly nervous.
Gus catches a look of relief on Malee's face.
Gus is stumped.
Leonard watches Patrick and his sisters drive off in a The taxicab disappears down the street.
As Leonard turns back around, he sees Grace, staring at him from the window.
They lock eyes for a moment and then Grace disappears into the dark recesses of the home.
Leonard descends the staircase and begins looking around at the setting.
Boxes of junk clutter the floor along with old furniture and bicycles.
He crosses to the basement door, which leads out to the backyard.
As Leonard unlocks and opens the door, a mass of cobwebs stretch across the frame like elastic bands.
Leonard grabs a nearby broom and starts wiping away the cobwebs.
Jacob sits at his desk, reading the PLASTIC SURGERY PAMPHLET his parents had given him for his birthday last year.
The bedroom door opens and Ashley sticks her head in.
Jacob stands in front of KEITH GARDNER , African American, sweet faced and dressed in a shirt and tie.   
He has luggage with him.
Ashley and Jim stand behind the boys, beaming.
Keith extends his hand.
Jacob leads Keith inside.
Keith lets Jacob's attitude pass.
Off Keith's hurt look - Malee stands at the card catalogue, flipping through the "S" section.
She comes to cards with the word SEX in the title.
Malee enters her room, locks the door behind her and empties her bag of SEX books on the bed.
The first one she peruses is the "KARMA SUTRA".
At first glance, Malee's eyes go wide in shock.
She grabs her backpack and removes a number of index cards.
Malee starts taking notes.
Jacob is on the one way phone with Kenny.
Kenny appears stunned.    
Jacob has never accepted that truth.
Kenny appears to be weighing the decision.
Yacco is on the phone with her ex-husband.
Malee enters the kitchen.
Yacco slams the phone down.
Malee runs out of the room, leaving a disappointed Yacco.
Leonard hammers a piece of wood over the basement door, which is now entirely boarded up.
REVEAL the basement.
Now clean.
Boxes, furniture and trash are piled neatly in a corner.
Only a mattress remains on the floor in the center of the room.
Leonard grabs a grocery bag and crosses to a bathroom at the opposite end of the basement.
Leonard turns on the light, revealing a shower, toilet and sink.
He removes toiletries from the grocery bag and places them inside.
Grace watches FAMILY FEUD while eating cake.
Grace drops her fork.
Grace jumps up and runs out of the room.
Grace opens the door to the staircase, which leads to the basement.
Leonard doesn't answer her.
Silence.
Grace begins walking downstairs.
Due to her size, she has difficultly maneuvering through the tight space.
Her inability to see her feet isn't helping matters.
Grace makes it downstairs, but Leonard is nowhere in sight.
Suddenly, Leonard bursts through the bathroom door with a hammer in hand.
He runs past Grace and up the stairs.
Half way up the stairs, Leonard stops and pries two of the steps off the stair case with his hammer.
This creates a GAP, making it virtually impossible for Grace to ascend.
Leonard runs upstairs and slams the door after him.
Malee watches as Gus enters his car and drives off.
Malee crosses to Gus' door with a GROCERY BAG in hand.
She kicks the welcome mat aside, picks up the spare key and enters.
Malee enters and removes a pair of rubber gloves, a bottle of ammonia and trash bags.
She starts cleaning.
Leonard descends the staircase, holding a tray of food.
Grace instantly rises.
Leonard looks at his mother, sympathetic.
Leonard turns and crosses back to the staircase.
The kitchen is now spotless.
Malee removes TWO TV DINNERS from the oven.
She crosses over to the kitchen table and places the food onto plates.
The table is set to the nines.
A small candle burns in the center.
Once the table is set and the food served, Malee takes a step back and smiles.
Malee strips off her clothes and puts on a long, silk robe.
Gus drives up, gets out of his car and enters the building.
Gus approaches his door.
As he takes out his key, he notices that the welcome mat has been pushed off to the side.
Gus lifts the mat up and sees that his spare key is gone.
Gus enters.   
He knows someone else is in there.
We follow him into the kitchen and FIND MALEE, standing beside the table and dressed only in her robe.
Malee drops her robe, revealing her naked body.    
Gus quickly looks away.
Malee starts walking towards him.
Gus doesn't answer.
Malee is right behind him now.     
She puts her head on his back.
Gus slowly turns around and looks at Malee for a long, pregnant beat.
It's a tense moment, and we are unsure of what he's going to do.
Then Gus moves past her and crosses to the living room.
Gus exits.    
Malee stands the fool.
Now embarrassed and crushed, she starts to cry.
Malee, now wrapped in a large overcoat, is led by Yacco out of the building and over to her car.
Yacco and Malee sit in silence.      
After a beat.
Jacob shoves clothes into his backpack.
Keith enters with Rudy's baseball glove on his hand.
Jacob notices the glove.
He rushes over to Keith, yanks it off his hand and pushes Keith to the ground.
Keith struggles to get free, but Jacob is too strong.
Jacob gets off of Keith and crosses to his closet.
He pulls out the lock box, unlocks it and removes the gun.
He points it at Keith.
Keith nods, petrified.
Jacob puts the gun back in the lock box, throws it in the closet and storms out of the room.
Ashley sits at the kitchen table, looking at a picture of Rudy and Jacob when they were infants.
Her eyes are filled, but she's not crying.
Jacob enters and crosses to the fridge.      
He spots Ashley and is taken aback by her state.
Ashley is struck by Jacob's comment.
Grace exits the bathroom and begins walking around the basement, looking for a way out.
She crosses to the boarded up door and tries to pull the boards off.
Unsuccessful, she returns to the bed and sits.
After a beat, Grace spots the tray of food, which is still untouched.
Angry and disgusted, she takes it and throws it at the wall.
Grace paces nervously while blabbering to herself.
Grace nervously rocks back and forth.
Sweat covers her body.
She glances at the tray of food, which rests on the floor.
Grace stands at the base of the stairwell, screaming.
Grace is crying.
She catches sight of the meal that she threw on the floor.
After a beat, Grace crawls over to it and starts shoving it down her throat.
She doesn't seem bothered by the fact that her dinner is covered with dirt.
Yacco exits her office to find Gus waiting for his session.
They speak not a word.
He rises and enters the office.
She follows, shutting the door behind her.
Gus and Yacco sit in their respective seats.
Yacco looks down, embarrassed.
Yacco sits, pondering all of this.
Gus rises and exits.
Yacco sits alone and starts crying.
Leonard is at the kitchen sink, arranging a fruit salad.
SUDDENLY, he hears the sound of water boiling over from the stove.
Leonard quickly turns the gas low, extinguishing the flame.
He removes the pot from the burner, grabs a strainer and removes poached EGG WHITES from the water.
Leonard grabs a dish towel and begins wiping the water off the stove.
Preoccupied, he doesn't realize that when he wipes the oven knob dry, he turns the gas on high.
(Since the overflowing water, extinguished the pilot light, he is unaware that gas is now being emitted from the burner.)    
In his condition, HE WON'T BE ABLE TO SMELL IT.
Leonard grabs the plates of food and exits the kitchen.
Leonard places the food by Grace's bed.    
She is sleeping.
Leonard sits on the couch, watching TV.
Suddenly, he starts coughing, hard.
The fit subsides and Leonard resumes watching TV, thinking nothing of it.
Malee enters the kitchen and answers the phone.
Malee hangs up the phone.
Tears swell in her eyes.     
She places her head in her arms and start bawling.
Malee looks to find Yacco standing behind her.
Yacco walks to Malee and hugs her tight.    
It's a long, overdue hug.
Grace awakens from her nap.     
Suddenly, she sniffs at the air.
Grace rises and crosses over to the foot of the basement stairs.
She sees that the upstairs door is wide open.
Silence.
Leonard is slumped over, unconscious.
Grace coughs hard.
Grace grabs a hold of the railing and starts climbing the stairs.
After a few steps, she stops to rest, wheezing.
With the help of the railing, Grace pulls herself up to the GAP in the staircase.
In one forceful exertion, she propels her body up and forward.
The railing instantly becomes separated from the wall.
Grace lands in a heap.
Luckily, the top half of her body made it to the other side.
With all of her might, Grace pulls herself up to the landing.
Exhausted and wheezing, Grace drags herself over to the stove and shuts the gas off.
She looks around for Leonard and sees him in the living room, slumped over and unconscious.
Grace frantically shuffles over to the living room.
Leonard slowly comes to in a hospital bed.       
The same nurse from earlier is by his side.
Jacob straddles his bike, watching a crew spread cement over the foundation of a house.
Jacob appears lost in thought.
He looks at a picture of Rudy and himself together.
Jacob touches his face in the photograph.
He traces his finger along the outline of his birthmark.
Jacob and Kenny share a cigarette.
Kenny eyes Jacob.
Kenny rides off.
Jacob watches him go.       
He has a lifeless, almost calculating look in his eyes.
Grace lies in a hosptial bed, watching TV.
Leonard enters, dressed in a hospital gown.
Grace turns to him, smiling.
Leonard leans over and kisses his mother's forehead.
Leonard smiles.
Jacob lies awake, staring out the window.     
A heavy wind blows.
Jacob sits up and silences his watch alarm.
Keith awakens as well, but remains silent.
He watches as Jacob grabs a bag and exits the house through the window.
Once he's gone, Keith gets off the top bunk, crosses to the window and watches as Jacob runs off.
Immediately, Keith crosses to the closet.
He removes the lock box and begins trying combinations to open it.
A heavy rain begins to fall as Jacob rides up.
He sees Kenny, standing inside of a partially, constructed house.
Kenny throws Jacob a PONCHO.
Jacob removes his backpack and puts on the poncho.
Then he opens his backpack and removes his HOCKEY MASK.
(The same mask he was wearing at the beginning of the movie.).
The boys start riding off in opposite directions.
Kenny files in behind Jacob, and the boys make their way deep into the construction site.
Thunder and lightning crash.
Keith has forgone opening the lock box via a combination and now tries to pry the top open with a SCREWDRIVER.
He works frantically, fearing Jacob's return.
Jacob and Henry make their way to the edge of the construction site.
Suddenly, Jacob stops in his tracks.
Jacob lifts the hockey mask.
Jacob begins rummaging through his backpack.
Keith pries the box open.       
It's EMPTY.   
No gun or bullets.
Jacob rises, holding the gun.   
He points it at Kenny.
Jacob shakes, frightened and reluctant to do what he believes he has to do.
Jacob cocks the gun.   
Tears stream down his checks.
Jacob fires.
Kenny is hit in the head.      
He drops to the ground instantly.
The force of the gun, knocks Jacob to the ground.      
As he falls, the hockey mask comes down over his face.
Jacob sits for a beat, staring at Kenny's lifeless body.
Lightning flashes, illuminating his blue eyes through the hockey mask.
Jacob is inside one of the UNPAVED house foundations, digging a hole.
He cries, struggling to finish what he has done.
Once a hole is dug, Jacob throws Kenny's body inside and starts covering it up with dirt.
Jacob climbs through his window, soaking wet.
He crosses to his closet and begins to change.
Keith lies in bed, watching.
Jacob removes the gun from his pocket and places it back inside the lock box.
His hands shake violently.
As he puts the box back inside the closet.
He finds Rudy's glove.
He smells the leather and smiles.
Jacob takes the glove and crosses over to his bed.    
He places the glove beside Keith.
Jacob lies down on his bed.
Keith lies back in bed, smiling.
Jacob rolls over, still unnerved by what he is done.
He'll never be the same, and he knows it.
Gus loads cinder blocks into a wheel barrow.
Gus spins around, and finds Malee, standing there.
Malee opens her backpack and removes Gus' GUN.    
Gus snatches it from her.
Malee walks off.      
Gus holds the gun in awe.
TIGHT ON JACOB, staring at the construction site.    
We ZOOM OUT and find him, straddling his bike.
Malee appears, walking over.
They stand for a moment, watching the builders.
Jacob nods, YES.
Jacob doesn't answer.
He is preoccupied with watching a TRUCK pour cement into the foundation where Kenny is buried.
It's a bittersweet moment.
While relieved by the fact that his crime will be hidden, the guilt overwhelms him.
Jacob turns his bike around, and the two ride off together.
Malee eyes Jacob, sensing that something is wrong.
BACK ON the foundation.
Gus enters frame and begins spreading cement over Kenny's grave.
